Jones, Edward R: figure.
Jones, Edward R: You know I can put sunglasses on and all it just a hat on and it'll still recognize me with the mask on now.
Jones, Edward R: you'd think they would have figured that out right.
Jones, Edward R: Well that's right if I can't I have to do this thing differently now.
Jones, Edward R: There it is OK.
Jones, Edward R: OK interrupt pass code.
Jones, Edward R: All right.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, good good all right great so.
Jones, Edward R: Am I sharing your screen can everybody see that.
Jones, Edward R: No.
Jim Clark: Yes, we can see you, but not that's.
Jones, Edward R: Not the screen Okay, I need to share the screen then let's.
Jones, Edward R: Wear.
Jones, Edward R: Like a teeny weeny monitor Okay, where is it.
Jones, Edward R: I think it's here, I have to make this larger something there you go and then I have to go share screen.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: This can you see Okay, you can see it good.
Jones, Edward R: All right, so if you go down to the the direction the link it's the links on the left hand side you'll see wi fi refinances freeze there there's nothing there okay I don't know about you, but it was yeah I lost a lot of time on week five.
Jones, Edward R: We had power up and down 30 minutes on 30 minutes off me and the good news is we didn't get cold The bad news is.
Jones, Edward R: I think you'd be right in the middle of doing some programming or something on the computer and the computer and stop break.
Jones, Edward R: Fortunately, the computer did not break on man, thank God, for that, but so I got kind of used to watching the clock and saving stuff but it got.
Jones, Edward R: It got it didn't get enough done as I wanted, and then, as he dragged on and on, I found out there were people much worse off than me.
Jones, Edward R: Some students who had no power at all some students who were traveling and then trying to get back and then I got back and their house is all messed up and everything so and then.
Jones, Edward R: You know, of course, everybody's wearing a mask and trying to not get sick so last week was I figure well let's just go ahead and move on.
Jones, Edward R: Hopefully, everybody is going to recover Houston is really good at this it's like I was thinking about this and I don't know whether you live in Houston you know what hurricanes like.
Jones, Edward R: i'm thinking this may have been worse than hurricane because i'll tell you what, why did why I think so because you didn't see it coming.
Jones, Edward R: If no warning is like well here with the hurricane it's like okay three or four day warning okay get to get gas in the car get some something to stay warm or cool.
Jones, Edward R: Do we live, do we stay or do we leave us about food, you know you have time to think about it and you mentally prepared for it, this was like you woke up the first time I knew about it was.
Jones, Edward R: Three o'clock in the morning on Monday, no power power went off So the first thing you think about is the power line blue down again and it'll be on 30 minutes and Sure enough, it was on 30 minutes, so I think we're going to go.
Jones, Edward R: 30 minutes, so I was getting a copy ready and everything you know thinking okay well i'll go get the class ready and and come to work on come here on Tuesday.
Jones, Edward R: And then it's like off again and I don't know this is gonna be difficult getting ready for class.
Jones, Edward R: And then up and down and down again and up and up and then my wife says she starts screaming in the kitchen no water now she is she my wife is add okay.
Jones, Edward R: And she has to everything in the right place the the everything has to be clean and put away so this idea of having dirty dishes in the sink was very foreign for her.
Jones, Edward R: And she was like, no, no, so I don't know what was worse, the cold or listen to my screen, so I told her I said i'm leaving if you if you can't stop that screaming.
Jones, Edward R: I can handle the kill, but not the screaming so it was it was a rough deal, and I think in some respects, it was worse than a hurricane in the good news is, at least for most people.
Jones, Edward R: it's been a temporary experience i'm sure there's some of you up there out there that have not found that to be the case and i'm sorry I really, really.
Jones, Edward R: You know the little bit of an inconvenience that I had was nothing compared to what some people are going through so.
Jones, Edward R: But hopefully we'll all recover on this and get moving forward and and I tell you I hear more and more people every day in the vaccine and in I see the numbers going down, which is good, you know, like that was good so anyway, I see, we have a baby in the audience oh.
Jones, Edward R: Who is this.
Jones, Edward R: Oh Hello.
Jones, Edward R: I don't see him name next year you're beautiful picture beautiful kid okay all right so tonight what we're going to do is we're going to talk a little bit about.
Jones, Edward R: The week for assignment and and then we'll move on to talking about natural language processing using Google.
Jones, Edward R: And then hopefully we'll move on to talking about drones and what we're going to be doing with that that's going to be an ongoing thing for the next few classes.
Jones, Edward R: So, if you would go to let's see if we go to week number four and you open that up and if you go to the week for assignment let's see it should show.
Jones, Edward R: The actual solution here at the bottom H O w for communicate P, why.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Jones, Edward R: Let me see if I can.
Jones, Edward R: Get anaconda working on my computer here.
Jones, Edward R: yeah.
Jones, Edward R: Coming up.
Jones, Edward R: So Leah that's your baby.
Leiah Wyckoff: yeah she's about four years old and she's.
Leiah Wyckoff: Like.
Jones, Edward R: No tissue tissue loose powered during the last week or.
Leiah Wyckoff: I did.
Leiah Wyckoff: But I took every opportunity that we did basically every time I would feed her I would put another bottle on the warm or, just in case the power was out.
Leiah Wyckoff: That hungry so.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, though.
Leiah Wyckoff: yeah she was okay.
Leiah Wyckoff: She started eating baby food, last week, also so that was help.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so.
Jones, Edward R: With that account is still there Okay, and I need to go off of the base environment and go to the Google environment.
Jones, Edward R: And so I have two different environments, one for Google and one for drone.
Jones, Edward R: And I guess you could combine though you could do put both of them together, but I haven't bothered to do that sink is probably safer to just keep them separate.
Jones, Edward R: OK.
Jones, Edward R: And i'm going to start up Hello.
Jones, Edward R: spider.
Jones, Edward R: So you're talking about the campus you have you have this solution, which is what I would expect Forum, the typical submission and then I have another one which is you'll see it in the week six folder.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: i'm going to just go ahead and start yet up i'm, so this is where are we okay we'll see what.
Jones, Edward R: Okay spiders coming up.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: And I keep getting these advertisements for new versions of this and that i'm going to i'm going to minimize this for right now.
Jones, Edward R: and cancel that and i'm gonna go to week six now.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: there's nothing in week five.
Jones, Edward R: In the first file at the top of week six is the improved hw four solution so i'm going to actually download that and start Daddy in in spider.
Jones, Edward R: see where it's going.
hey.
Jones, Edward R: let's see how do I minimize oh there it is yeah.
Jones, Edward R: Okay i'm trying to maximize or.
Jones, Edward R: minimize the.
Jones, Edward R: Video here can hide whatever um.
Jones, Edward R: How do I do that.
Jones, Edward R: So I give you more more of the you can see more of the screen.
Jones, Edward R: Right now, I can't even find thanks.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: How do I get rid of the zoom.
Jones, Edward R: that's that's my problem let's see if I if I type on zoom and i'm already joined down, so I don't have to do that.
Jones, Edward R: I don't want to leave the meeting, so I want to.
Jones, Edward R: hide the video panel there we go all right, thank God.
Jones, Edward R: Because i'm trying to give you the I got a small screen here and i'm trying to maximize what i'm what i'm going to be showing here.
Jones, Edward R: So i'm let me look at.
Jones, Edward R: The folder that I usually keep all of this and.
Jones, Edward R: I just downloaded hw for.
Jones, Edward R: The improved version.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: looks like i'll have to.
Jones, Edward R: bring it over.
Jones, Edward R: There it is hw four with mods and i'm going to bring it over into.
Jones, Edward R: Week five trains you.
Jones, Edward R: Okay it's there alright, so now go to spider.
Jones, Edward R: and open that up.
Jones, Edward R: Your dish.
Jones, Edward R: So i'm hoping I hope you're following along with me doing the same thing, opening up hw four with mods.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, and.
Fireman, Karen: i'm sorry I don't see that, where do we do that.
Jones, Edward R: you'll find inside of the week six folder at the very top, the first file in week six you'll find it says hw four communicate.
Jones, Edward R: And i'm going to try to make the code here on the screen a little larger.
Jones, Edward R: So you can hopefully see and see what i'm doing a little better.
Fireman, Karen: And we are going to okay hw for communicate yes.
Jones, Edward R: And Karen I can't really make out what you're saying.
Jones, Edward R: it's kind of muted.
Fireman, Karen: Myself Okay, thank you.
Jones, Edward R: yeah so.
Jones, Edward R: All right, so this is this is hw four and if I run it.
Jones, Edward R: See, why is it that I can't minimize the screen over here.
Jones, Edward R: Oh there it is.
Jones, Edward R: There we go okay that's better, so let me run this and it should should show there it is alright.
Jones, Edward R: So this is the, this is the version that I put up produced it's it's a little bit more or a little different what's different is, I have a option here to change the source.
Jones, Edward R: From English to Spanish and other words by I didn't expect you to do this, I expected all you do and have the by default, you could say how are you today.
Jones, Edward R: Something like that, and maybe you want to produce that in English and then, if you click speak loops error both is the target language and source language, so the same so maybe we'll we'll do is change it to Spanish here and see what it says.
Jones, Edward R: say so that's you should show the texts here and hear it on the microphones if if the could they if they language is supported by Google so not all these languages, for example.
Jones, Edward R: Zulu is not that they don't have a text to speech translator you can translate this into sulu so, for example, if I change that to zillow and hit speak.
Jones, Edward R: You get the translation, but how do you pronounce that not sure, and there is the Google speech to text, I mean text to speech translator is limited to about 10 languages.
Jones, Edward R: Some of them kind of common you know, Spanish and German So if I go to Italian, for example, and say translate.
Jones, Edward R: So that was the Italy Italian version of how are you today.
Jones, Edward R: German became a seaman yeah.
Jones, Edward R: So if I hit that, by the way.
Jones, Edward R: it's kind of interesting.
Jones, Edward R: yeah that's that's the formal version of how are you today that's if you were speaking to somebody at work or a little bit older than you or something like that became a seaman on the street you just say Bill Gates.
Jones, Edward R: that's a familiar form, and of course in Spanish, you have the same sort of structure, we have two different versions and familiar and the formal.
Jones, Edward R: So that is the familiar form in Spanish, the status so come with us, and if you need se como style said if you're using the formal version in Spanish so it's interesting, the French go, I mean the Spanish it's like informal and then in German it's funnel so.
Jones, Edward R: that's kind of cute but at any rate, if you have any issues with this.
Jones, Edward R: homework, please bring them up at the our Q amp a.
Jones, Edward R: or send me an email.
Jones, Edward R: Now, the first thing you might want to do is just take a look at the code here for this this example and if there's something you to understand, about the solution the code, let me know and we'll work on that.
Jones, Edward R: Now.
Jones, Edward R: i'm going to tell you this Watson i'll tell you tell you it again before we leave tonight, there is no class next Tuesday, why not.
Jones, Edward R: Next Tuesday used to Texas Independence Day and the governor the governor and or whoever's in charge of here has declared this a State holiday for all government workers so that means all universities and.
Jones, Edward R: State supported you know facilities are going to be closed next Tuesday just for one day, so in those in that on this is the free I didn't even know, we had a Texas Independence Day, did you know Jamie okay I should know that sort of.
Jones, Edward R: yeah so it's March, the second and I don't know what that corresponds to reset the is that the the.
Jones, Edward R: Treaty of not know which treaty, but whatever we'll look it up.
Fireman, Karen: Maybe San jacinto.
Jones, Edward R: yeah it could be.
Jones, Edward R: San jacinto or picabo the hill logo I don't know.
Fireman, Karen: Though that.
Jim Clark: April 21 is the anniversary of that balance changer Sarah.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, and you said oh okay.
Fireman, Karen: You transpose this supposed to run when we click f5 because my just hung there.
Jones, Edward R: You mean the homework for.
Fireman, Karen: yeah.
Fireman, Karen: Oh there it is.
Fireman, Karen: it's in again i'm sorry Thank you got it.
Jones, Edward R: Okay yeah of course it's you can see the on the import statements, you have to have.
Jones, Edward R: The Google cloud material.
Jones, Edward R: installed in your environment, and you can see what they are here on my screen if you in and, of course, you would got you would have gotten the message about hey it's doesn't don't recognize that particular important, but if you got to pass that it should run.
Jones, Edward R: OK now Another thing I want to point out we're getting ready to switch gears here pretty soon well i'll talk about this later in some detail, but I wanted to mention that, up until now nearly I think.
Jones, Edward R: All of the widgets that we've been using have been the tinker widgets that's the TT K widget there's a whole nother family that that actually.
Jones, Edward R: They use when they developed tinker they actually derived the button for tinker from the tk version of button so there's a whole family of widgets call the tk but.
Jones, Edward R: widgets that you can use and, in fact, you can have you can use both of them, so you could have one button in your ui using the TT K version.
Jones, Edward R: And then another one, using the tk version now why would you want to do that, while you're going to see you're going to see another good week today.
Jones, Edward R: Where I did that I ended up I have learned to make something really kind of fancy looking at here and so with the tk version, you can control things like put an image in your button.
Jones, Edward R: or change the height, you can change the height around it tk but but a tk button, you can so you have more options in the tk environment for modifying the widget than you do in the TT K.
Jones, Edward R: So what is this about the people who created the tck version of the widget this so thinking let's make it easy let's make it easy to use, something subtle.
Jones, Edward R: If you look at the tk version you've got like 20 or 30 options and they said now let's just put it down to like 10 or so.
Jones, Edward R: The major ones that we use and for the rest of them out okay well that's fine if you're just going to put something together and it's a simple sort of thing.
Jones, Edward R: Like a pop up you know you want to pop up in your program that comes up and says.
Jones, Edward R: warning warning you know the sky is falling, or something like that you, you don't need something really integrating in and really complicated, so you can make a little widget that pops up for that.
Jones, Edward R: And you could use a tinker widgets for that and it'll it should it will work fine.
Jones, Edward R: But if you're making a nap that you're going to use and you're going to present to other people to use maybe you want something a little more fans little fancy.
Jones, Edward R: You might want to put an icon or your logo in part of the part of the fixture and doing that and tinker you can do it is not as elegant as doing that in tk.
Jones, Edward R: So, so now you're going to see some tk widgets that I used and you'll see the sort of thing, and you also have assignments as week six assignment.
Jones, Edward R: You have two weeks to do that assignments okay and i'm probably going to add a little bit more to the assignment this assignment is.
Jones, Edward R: Basically, if you look at the week six assignment you'll see it, it says, take the homework solution for week three and modified a little bit, and so I don't think it's all that challenging but it is, it will require you to use some of the things that we're going to talk about tonight.
Jones, Edward R: So let me go ahead and shut that down and now we're going to talk to start there this tonight is going to be devoted divided into two different areas, the first area we're going to talk about natural language.
Jones, Edward R: programming.
Jones, Edward R: And nlp in PO.
Jones, Edward R: nlp excuse me natural language processing or programming and we're going to talk about in sentiment analysis now, this goes back to this last summer.
Jones, Edward R: Stat you know step 656 we talked about sentiment analysis and that is a technique for judging whether the emotional content of what's being talked about or what's being said.
Jones, Edward R: And you might recall, we use the a thin version of sentiment analysis, which means that words were signed were identified as emotional words and if they were sentiment words, they would receive a weight like anywhere from minus five through a plus five.
Jones, Edward R: But Google has their own version of sentiment analysis and we're going to look at that and it's going to be a scale between minus one in plus one.
Jones, Edward R: Well, so there's that hack actually has kind of an audience by steel, for me, because i'm thinking well it's always a pain trying to figure out what is a minus three what does that mean well it, whereas if it's a minus point eight I know it's like it's 80% negative.
Jones, Edward R: it's a plus point eight it's like 80% positive because something like that right so also the technique that's being used here with Google is very different, the.
Jones, Edward R: The afm technique you ever you have a dictionary of emotional words and each this is additional one word each word that's in that dictionary is assign weights of minus five plus five.
Jones, Edward R: Google does it differently they're using deep learning techniques and so they're going to be there, they have basically when about fitting.
Jones, Edward R: Deep learning fitting neural networks that will predict what the emotional content is for the entire sentence or paragraph.
Jones, Edward R: Based upon the combination of words, not just a single word counts, but the combination of words and so.
Jones, Edward R: In some regards I think that they're there to approach is more robust than the fan approach but we'll take a look at that so let's go back to a campus and show you let me show you where we are.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, we aren't there I can't post right okay wait a minute.
Jones, Edward R: let's black there we go okay so there's a folder on week six call in LP natural language processing files right let's open that up.
Jones, Edward R: And you can see, there are a bunch of files in here there we're going to look at the first one we're going to look at it, as nlp one so let's click on that download it and open it up in.
Jones, Edward R: In.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, where are we here.
Jones, Edward R: Oh, is this is this noise, like the always apple is wants to be so sure about Python.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Why are we doing that okay don't do that.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Jones, Edward R: So i'm going to be sure, wherever you you're you're taking the nlp one right and i'm putting that in my week five folder now be sure, wherever you're putting it that you have the Jason the credentials in that in that directory.
Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: So should have Google, where is it.
Jones, Edward R: There, oh no yeah there it is okay.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Jones, Edward R: The the natural language processor in Google is.
Jones, Edward R: fairly straightforward.
Jones, Edward R: You do need to have installed the what's called the Google cloud language version one underscore V1.
Jones, Edward R: So I believe you already have that installed because that's the that's the the import that we use with translating texts boy, you know texts that translating text.
Jones, Edward R: So if you should have import Google dot out a u Th that's the Google routine that we use to authenticate using credentials credentials.
Jones, Edward R: And then from Google cloud import language underscore V1 version one as language Okay, so this is a library, whether we're going to be using the language underscore V one.
Jones, Edward R: There are two functions at the top, one of them is get text sentiment and the other is get text classification for now we're just going to talk about sentiment, how you how they how that's handled when you call this function at the top yeah you have your credentials here client.
Jones, Edward R: That are being passed in, and then the text now that could be a single sentence or it could be a paragraph or it could be an entire book.
Jones, Edward R: A long string.
Jones, Edward R: You have to set up the document characteristics and so you see document, and you can see language document.
Jones, Edward R: And it's of course it's text language is een it turns out that you can get some of it for other languages about 10 or so languages and Spanish is one of them.
Jones, Edward R: And you do that by e N, is for English, but then you change that to as if you're doing Spanish it for Italian and so forth, and so on, this is very cool because I don't have the a fan list for Spanish.
Jones, Edward R: At the fan approach is strictly English, so what they've done somebody did a lot of work here they fit a neural network to all these different languages, where.
Jones, Edward R: You know the the way you would do this in a practical sense is you take a bunch of movie reviews and on the movies, this is OK for star three star five Star and then you fit a neural network to predict the number of stars based upon the words the words that are in that.
Jones, Edward R: You know that critique.
Jones, Edward R: And so, then you would have a model than the model says you give me a paragraph i'm going to check the words in there and i'm going to cook the and i'm going to then predict the number of stars, the.
Jones, Edward R: sentiment for that particular combination.
Jones, Edward R: So that's a sort of a general way that they have done this and it doesn't matter whether it's Spanish Chinese or English.
Jones, Edward R: You can fit that model for any for any particular language provided you have a good corpus, a good collection of reviews in that language that you feel are good to worth doing now The other thing you see here, it says type language document type plain text oh.
Jones, Edward R: Jones Could I just oh.
Jones, Edward R: hi there.
Fireman, Karen: I don't know if we have this in our library so there's something we can do for pip install or would we want.
Jones, Edward R: Those.
Jones, Edward R: What do you, what is your question Karen.
Fireman, Karen: it's throwing an error, just when i'm trying to do.
Jones, Edward R: you're trying to run this and it's giving you.
Fireman, Karen: Just the three import statements and 789.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, you probably don't have these things installed on your computer, for your environment.
Fireman, Karen: Right so i'm in the right environment, so I guess, maybe, none of us has it So what do we do condo or pip or what is the right thing.
well.
Jones, Edward R: let's.
Jones, Edward R: You should be you should have, I think we haven't we should have been installing this in the earlier.
Fireman, Karen: Everything.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Dr Jones, this is the House um we don't have the language underscore V1 from Google cloud.
Jones, Edward R: Okay that's the one.
Jones, Edward R: I think let's hang on just a second here.
Jones, Edward R: I believe you just you just say Google cloud language be one, but let me, let me double check on that, while we're here.
Kilani, Shadi: also need to enable it in your Google profile.
Kilani, Shadi: allow it to operate to me do that as well.
Jones, Edward R: Well, hang on just a second here.
Coleman, Clay: We shouldn't have to do you shouldn't have to enable and it should already be enabled.
Coleman, Clay: Right, rather than others.
Jones, Edward R: dead depends if it's it would be if you picked it in the right directory.
Jones, Edward R: Right so Google cloud.
Jones, Edward R: language.
Fireman, Karen: Thank you for your help on this.
Jones, Edward R: One okay.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so here it is.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Coleman, Clay: If you check the chat we've also it's it's pip install Google dash cloud bash language.
Fireman, Karen: Okay, thank you, thank you.
Jones, Edward R: that's what I thought it was so it's it's Google cloud language to underscore V1 right.
Fireman, Karen: No V1.
Coleman, Clay: No it's just pip install Google dash cloud dash language.
Jones, Edward R: No V1.
Fireman, Karen: Nobody one.
Fireman, Karen: And then do we have to do anything else clay or now it'll work.
Coleman, Clay: I don't know I haven't tried it since then, but that's that's the install that.
Jones, Edward R: Normally, you know, normally, what I do is I go into spider and do this and spider.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so down here on the end the icon to support over here.
Jones, Edward R: Normally I try to go pip.
Jones, Edward R: In the environment i'm working in a certain environment here i'm in this case, I have a Google environment, so I say pip install.
Jones, Edward R: And then just Google cloud.
Jones, Edward R: That language.
Jones, Edward R: like that.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: In my case it's going to say.
Jones, Edward R: spam.
Jones, Edward R: What does it say.
Jones, Edward R: cannot find a version that satisfies the requirement Google cloud language.
Jones, Edward R: From versions.
Fireman, Karen: They were dashes, I think, maybe.
Fireman, Karen: One or dashes not dance.
Jones, Edward R: Here, but you said you said it was Google cloud that language right oh.
Fireman, Karen: No, the periods are hyphens.
Coleman, Clay: it's yeah it's a dash not a dot.
Fireman, Karen: dash.
Fireman, Karen: Here back up to the period.
Fireman, Karen: yep.
Fireman, Karen: And the next one's a dash awesome.
Fireman, Karen: Yes.
Jones, Edward R: It is oh.
Fireman, Karen: Give us the G.
Faculty Office Hours: Look in the chat.
Jones, Edward R: yeah see I got a small screen I don't see a chat.
Fireman, Karen: If this now worked I tried it.
Jones, Edward R: Look, if.
Wilson Pineda: You misspell install Dr Jones.
Fireman, Karen: Oh, you did install is in school yeah.
Jones, Edward R: I don't see a chat.
Fireman, Karen: If install it there's a queue instead of an A.
Fireman, Karen: There you go.
Jones, Edward R: yeah well it's already installed on my computer so that's.
Fireman, Karen: Oh, you got it okay we've got it to thank you.
Jones, Edward R: So it's pip install Google dash cloud Dutch Dutch language and know be one.
Fireman, Karen: Perfect Novi one.
Fireman, Karen: that's it Okay, thank you.
and
Jones, Edward R: Now, after you do that sort of thing you're going to have you should restart the current.
Jones, Edward R: So make sure you're doing this, all within the environment that where you want us to be resident, I have three or four environment, so if I did it in one in the base environment and then moved over to a different environment they wouldn't see it.
Jones, Edward R: So after do the fifth thing then normally you restart the I would normally restart the Colonel up here go to restart.
Jones, Edward R: And then do Google music condo list.
Jones, Edward R: So, like john.
Jones, Edward R: And it's kinda.
Jones, Edward R: list.
Jones, Edward R: which shows everything that kind of sees as far as install packages sister concern, and if we scroll through this up to Google.
Jones, Edward R: So you should see cloud dash language Novi one.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Fireman, Karen: Yes.
Jones, Edward R: you're right i'm sorry for all the trouble I thought we had already installed this.
Jones, Edward R: I we'd start we install the speech and the text to speech and the translate all that.
Jones, Edward R: We just hadn't we hadn't installed, the language.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: All right.
Jones, Edward R: So we can move ahead, I was, I was just talking about the document characteristics, and so one of the characteristics that's useful is to be able to change the language.
Jones, Edward R: The other thing that's useful here is the type, in addition to plain text you can you can have this actually look at html.
Jones, Edward R: That means you can process a web page without having to convert it to pull out the text.
Jones, Edward R: So this has been built smart enough so that it will actually read html and gentlemen and basically ignore the markup symbols and language that's in the html webpage html and then produces a sentiment for that webpage.
Jones, Edward R: The next thing that you see, is it says responses equal to client dot analyze sentiments, so this is going to go into the language package.
Jones, Edward R: And this is a class, then the language package for analyzing sentiment client, of course, is your credentials that are passed him.
Jones, Edward R: document equal to the document, the document is described in that upper line right here in coding type is equal to now the reason, this is there is because some languages don't use.
Jones, Edward R: Our form of encoding ut of 32 or ut of eight, so these were often these would be like Asian languages, where they have different symbols, and so they they can change the encoding type correspond to the language that you're using.
Jones, Edward R: And then you just say sentiment is equal to response dot document sentiment and and then you'll get the return the sentiment score.
Jones, Edward R: So that's that's basically in a nutshell, how you go about getting sentiment from a single string or if it's a document and you represent that document by a string.
Jones, Edward R: In addition to that this package allows us to do classification Now this is kind of cool.
Jones, Edward R: When we didn't we didn't talk about this it wasn't something that we had available to us and natural language, processing and 656.
Jones, Edward R: And 656 we focused on sentiment and also topic analysis, you know, identifying what we're really talking about what are the topics that they're talking about well.
Jones, Edward R: They have something here, which is not topic analysis but sort of similar and they're calling it classification and what it is, is they have about 20 or 30 business type classifications.
Jones, Edward R: And they go into the document and determine whether what the what is the probability that this document corresponds to this particular category.
Jones, Edward R: For example, one of the categories is computer and technology.
Jones, Edward R: And so, if they look at the document and they're looking for they're looking for certain keywords like computer related words they see a bunch of them.
Jones, Edward R: Then they will tell you that this document is it belongs part of the document anyway belongs to the category computers.
Jones, Edward R: And that gives you a confidence number, which is a number between zero and one about how strong that relationship is so this allows you to look at business documents very quickly and find out identify once that might or might not be more related to what you're looking for.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: It returns that information, the categories associated with each document, and then the confidence or probability that that categories associated with that document.
Jones, Edward R: And you have the same kind of structure where you first set up the document type, so the text the the language and plain text or html.
Jones, Edward R: And the you do a response, but when you do the response, instead of going client Doc sentiment analyze sentiment you're doing quiet dot classify text.
Jones, Edward R: And then it'll returns or gives you that classification now we're going to take a look at both of these and for in this particular analysis we're going to look at an x an excel file and the excel file is also in the week six folder it's called text sentiment cases.
Jones, Edward R: And so, if you could please download text send them a cases and put them in I have it right now the best says folder called excel and I put them in that excel file folder.
Jones, Edward R: right next to the code that i'm running and it's called text sentiment cases Now let me check to make sure it's there and in this computer.
Jones, Edward R: So there is an excel folder right up here at the top of that up and you can see, it says.
Jones, Edward R: It says test.
Jones, Edward R: sentiment cases is a tester texts, what is the code say again.
Jones, Edward R: The town.
Jones, Edward R: test.
Fireman, Karen: test test yeah.
Jones, Edward R: So it's test pst cinema cases let's.
Jones, Edward R: let's go ahead and run this and.
Jones, Edward R: you'll see on the what happens.
Jones, Edward R: And so there it goes what it's doing is it's taking each sentence this excel file has about 20 different sentences and it calculates the sentiment for each one of those those lines now i'd like you to open up.
Jones, Edward R: That file.
Jones, Edward R: test set of cases.
Fireman, Karen: So, Dr Jones.
Jones, Edward R: Was this.
Fireman, Karen: Is Karen was hanging up online 49 text equals contents, it says content is not defined did I miss something up.
Jones, Edward R: What is lead line three nights six give me a.
Fireman, Karen: 949 says text equals contents or maybe I don't have a whole thing.
Jones, Edward R: Okay line number 49 is blank on my screen.
Fireman, Karen: text my the wrong file.
Coleman, Clay: Oh Karen if you look at his.
Coleman, Clay: His paper he's getting the same error.
Coleman, Clay: Oh man contents not defined right there.
Fireman, Karen: Online at seven.
Oh.
Jones, Edward R: Thank you see what happened here hang on.
Brian Frankel: You check the chat the solution has been provided by Robert line 78 says to be modified slightly.
Fireman, Karen: But mine is on 49 does nobody ever does anybody else have that same problem 149.
Jones, Edward R: there's another file this this this is this is there's another file that is trying to read it's called IBM texts txt txt.
Jones, Edward R: And it's looking at looking for a folder.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, I thought I took I thought I took all of this out of this program.
Fireman, Karen: One other question for you, Sir, are we using nlp one or an MP3.
Jones, Edward R: Oh, this is this is.
Fireman, Karen: Violence this which which file.
Jones, Edward R: It should be one, but it looks.
Fireman, Karen: Like it's a look.
Jones, Edward R: It looks like it's the whole all three of them actually.
Jones, Edward R: alright.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Fireman, Karen: As line numbers one or two.
Jones, Edward R: It looks like it's all three of them, and not just.
Jones, Edward R: Not just the I took the main file this file and I broke it up into three pieces so that So if you could with me for me go ahead and take all of the lines from number 49 all the way to the bottom, and do, and erase them.
Jones, Edward R: Like just like i'm doing down here.
Jones, Edward R: So that's that's what happened here just do that.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so that I only wanted to process that excel file not not those other files here.
Jones, Edward R: So if we run this now that we shouldn't you shouldn't see any strange business at the bottom.
Jones, Edward R: There all right there we go.
Jones, Edward R: 49 and on should be erased and then go to the excel file here and that you have an open it up.
Jones, Edward R: Coming up here.
Jones, Edward R: was just taking show on.
Jones, Edward R: verifying excel.
Fireman, Karen: Does it care if they're capitals and smalls and the names it doesn't matter right.
Faculty Office Hours: Now it matters care.
Fireman, Karen: Okay.
Faculty Office Hours: What depends on Linux or windows, but yeah.
Fireman, Karen: i'm in windows and I have something with a capital excel on a small excel a small ones not showing up.
Fireman, Karen: that's what i'm asking it's not copying it in but it's not.
Jones, Edward R: Okay it's not that some things are this computers like it's not opening this up it's not like this will open it.
Jones, Edward R: So this is an excel problem for me.
Jones, Edward R: There it is I don't want to go along Okay, so this is the excel file and I hope you can see, this on your screen, if you have a copy of it.
Jones, Edward R: And i'm going to make this larger so that it'll show up a little better.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, there can you read that okay.
Jones, Edward R: All right, the first sentence, the first sentence is, this is a bad movie right so that's negative sentiment.
Jones, Edward R: The eighth and analysis gives you the gives that sentence a score have negative three and the Google sentiment is negative point nine.
Jones, Edward R: So both of them are showing this is highly negative, this is a good movie, then you get a plus three and a point nine so they're they're kind of consistent here.
Jones, Edward R: In that in that regard, this is not a bad movie Okay, so that gets a plus three in a fun analysis, but only a point five in Google.
Jones, Edward R: So that seems to be a little bit odd there because I would have thought it would be just the opposite of you know, the other 1.9 0.9.
Jones, Edward R: And then you have, this is not a good movie movie and you get a minus three for the fan and a minus point nine for Google see that.
Jones, Edward R: So why do we get a point five instead of point nine, and this has to do, I think, with the the moat they're using some kind of model, a neural network model.
Jones, Edward R: And so it's not just looking at not and bad, but probably also movie and it's it's looking historically at when people say it's not a bad movie.
Jones, Edward R: Is that a point nine is very, very positive very enthusiastic and what google's saying is that well it doesn't really mean that it's all of that good it's not a bad you know, usually if I say something, and it wasn't bad and then.
Jones, Edward R: Somebody was great okay.
Jones, Edward R: So that wasn't bad So you can see how these two two different here are the point nine being very, very positive are very negative, and here I get a negative two, for I did not like this movie.
Jones, Edward R: And a negative point nine, which is very negative right for Google.
Jones, Edward R: And then you can see how they they switch up now look at this one.
Jones, Edward R: This this this one, I saw was interesting that was a sin.
Jones, Edward R: ethan says that's neutral sentiment.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: And Google is saying no no that's good.
Jones, Edward R: That was a sin okay.
Jones, Edward R: and the next one that was sinful I would have thought those two would have gotten the same score that that was assuming that was simple right.
Jones, Edward R: i'm not sure what the difference is grammatically I think that is that was a sin is probably grammatically incorrect, but you can see that was sinful is to get a fantasy in it, oh that's a negative three and Google is saying not so bad.
Jones, Edward R: Really okay So you see, they do differ in some areas and and when I looked over this entire list, which is not exhaustive that just to say you know these are one word one sentiment word per sentence, so to speak.
Jones, Edward R: But what I found was that the the Google seem to be going, you know negative nine positive point nine and, whereas the a fan you get numbers so more very numbers.
Jones, Edward R: But, in general, if they use it, the university rarely do you see where Google says it's negative and Nathan says it's positive you don't see that kind of a change.
Jones, Edward R: So I think they're in for the most part, consistent with one another, but I do like the way that Google handles handles us a little bit better.
Jones, Edward R: Because I think it's taking a more holistic approach by looking at the entire collection of worse, not just a single word or two words that are in the document.
Jones, Edward R: But maybe somebody could do a project on this right.
Jones, Edward R: That would be a good project say check them out to how are you comparing the fan list of the Google list and the try to characterize in some way.
Jones, Edward R: How they're the same how and where they are different, maybe find some cases that that they're very different and then.
Jones, Edward R: Try to investigate that a little bit and see why that might be the white by that that might that be, by the way, I haven't found all the documentation on the Google side.
Jones, Edward R: There should be some documentation on more specifically, how they generate their sentiments and using their newer letter work or what have you.
Jones, Edward R: Okay let's go back to the week for.
Fireman, Karen: James, can I ask you a question on 38 i'm throwing an error that I can stand it saying.
Fireman, Karen: xlr D and I already installed xlr D.
Fireman, Karen: it's not working.
Fireman, Karen: Online 38 D E, F equals PD dot read excel excel file it's not working it's a really simple statement but it's not working.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Karen do you have an excel folder.
Fireman, Karen: In yes, yes, I do and I have that file in.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: All right, don't know what did you.
Fireman, Karen: shake your take that out, but I, but I have one okay.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: But I probably directory issue.
Fireman, Karen: No, I don't know it says i'm says.
Fireman, Karen: I don't know there's 10 lines always D F equals PD read that that that line and.
Jones, Edward R: Which one, are you talking about.
Fireman, Karen: 3838 we're def equals PD read excel excel file that one.
Jones, Edward R: Okay that's what that's what pandas do you have worked pandas.
Fireman, Karen: I sure do.
Fireman, Karen: Yes, sir.
yeah.
Jones, Edward R: And is the is that the file name exactly the same as you see there in the in the line 37.
Fireman, Karen: Well, I think so.
Jones, Edward R: to sit reading part of the file and not the rest of it.
Fireman, Karen: I don't think it's reading any of it.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, then I would double check to make sure that the path that you see there is exactly where you, you have.
Jones, Edward R: When you're in windows, when you download it sometimes it'll insert a one or two, in the name I hate that.
Fireman, Karen: I know what you mean but I don't think that's there i'll double check I don't I know.
Jones, Edward R: Tom check check your check your window go into that directory make sure the excel directory.
Jones, Edward R: is in the same folder with your code.
Fireman, Karen: yeah it is.
Jones, Edward R: And then, make sure that the file is spelled exactly the will you see here in the line 37.
Fireman, Karen: test sentiment cases with individual caps on each one dot X X X El es es that's what you've got.
Jones, Edward R: uh huh.
Can you open it in excel.
Fireman, Karen: Can I open it I guess i'll try that's a good question.
Fireman, Karen: yeah.
Jones, Edward R: It may have gotten corrupted when you download it in.
Fireman, Karen: A way it works.
Faculty Office Hours: I Karen quite foot chat he is there's a package that.
Faculty Office Hours: The pip install that he has to install to get that to work.
Fireman, Karen: Oh i'm sorry where's that Thank you oh Okay, thank you both you.
Fireman, Karen: see that I was looking.
Fireman, Karen: At the install open.
Fireman, Karen: Thank you.
Jones, Edward R: What is the package, what are we talking about here who shouldn't open P, why so.
Coleman, Clay: yeah it, so I went through the documentation and every time I was getting the same error, I had solid XL RD.
Coleman, Clay: But it didn't apparently I installed the 2.0 point one version and it didn't want that one, and then it asked me to a pip install open P, why excel and then everything works not sure what's going.
Jones, Edward R: On in here but supposed to be just appear to school.
Coleman, Clay: yeah no I I saw that it's something about the sls file extension that it didn't like.
Jones, Edward R: Well i've been using Panda screw you know some years and never have that perfect home.
Coleman, Clay: yeah no sense of you it worked.
Fireman, Karen: Thank you.
Coleman, Clay: same same here same here, but I i'm not sure it's just not liking, the file extension xlr sucks.
Jones, Edward R: hmm that's the new system they've been so some number of years.
Jones, Edward R: So that means band, this is a bug.
Coleman, Clay: it's possible that already had a dependency that wasn't installed.
Jones, Edward R: I don't know if anybody finds out, let me know.
Coleman, Clay: Oh let's right there Craig it's a recent change due to security hole at their.
Jones, Edward R: advantage to change.
Coleman, Clay: yeah it used to now uses open P, why XL engine interesting there you go.
Look.
Jones, Edward R: So i'm using i'm probably using the previous version, or something and that's why.
Jones, Edward R: it's not worth it works for me then work for you, I say.
Fireman, Karen: One other question on that on that change you having a chat on changing line 78, what are we changing it to.
Coleman, Clay: We don't we deleted everything past line 49 so it.
Coleman, Clay: Should matter.
Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Okay let's see if we can.
Jones, Edward R: Open up kiva mpl to if you download Google infield to nlp to excuse me.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: we're going to take a look at that one.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Jones, Edward R: Open that Google nlp to.
Jones, Edward R: Let me, let me double check real quick to make sure I got the right one here.
Jones, Edward R: whoops.
Jones, Edward R: yeah.
Jones, Edward R: So this file we're using the same functions text sentiment and text classification.
Jones, Edward R: But instead of looking at the.
Jones, Edward R: excel spreadsheet we're going to like take a look at one text file and that's IBM dot txt, which is also available in the week six folder as you'll see a folder there a file called IBM dot txt that you'll want to download that and put it into a directory called text.
Jones, Edward R: If you can let me double check mine and see if it's there.
Fireman, Karen: same errors coming up with the contents to be deleted again part of the file.
Fireman, Karen: Line 46.
Fireman, Karen: Sir, it says text equals contents.
Fireman, Karen: Not to find.
Coleman, Clay: Did you check your IBM texts and make sure to the correct file for the file folder.
Fireman, Karen: i'll double check, I thought so but i'll double check.
Jones, Edward R: yeah IBM.
Fireman, Karen: IBM is not.
Okay.
Fireman, Karen: Okay, thanks.
Fireman, Karen: Young oh there it is.
Fireman, Karen: It doesn't seem to be downloading when I click on it, you have to right click it you.
Fireman, Karen: know how do you save this I get to save it once it opens.
Jones, Edward R: Alright, so if you have that setup you have a directory called text and then in there, IBM dot txt.
Jones, Edward R: And we're going to run in peel nlp.
Jones, Edward R: And we'll try that here.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so in this case, what we're doing is we're taking a look at a entire document, instead of just one sentence.
Jones, Edward R: And we're going to get the sentiment for that document, so I just ran it in mind is this is what i'm seeing on the right hand side here.
Jones, Edward R: So what it does, is it first just displays the entire paragraph, which is the description of IBM that you get from alpha vantage.
Jones, Edward R: And it says that the entire text sentiment in magnitude is zero sentiment and the magnitude of point seven.
Jones, Edward R: The the sentiment is really the number we're looking for so they're saying that this is neutral not positive not negative and how was that done what it was done the same way that we just did except instead of sending a sentence we're sending the entire paragraph.
Jones, Edward R: So here we're opening the file.
Jones, Edward R: And then reading that and putting the contents of that file in a variable called contents and then I move that over to a variable called text and here's the document set up plain text.
Jones, Edward R: The response analyze sentiment.
Jones, Edward R: And then the actual should have a calculation itself right here.
Fireman, Karen: So quick question for you, Sir in phone if the try except doesn't work, and it goes to accept that he won't have.
Fireman, Karen: thing in the text, because the content will be empty.
Jones, Edward R: I do understand what you're saying.
Fireman, Karen: Online 38 try except if it goes to accept you won't have anything to execute online 46 calls texts and contents won't be there.
Jones, Edward R: yeah I should add all you're doing when if it fails you're just going to get an error message.
Fireman, Karen: 46 it'll fail.
Fireman, Karen: Because there won't be a contents to that you load it in the trash.
Jones, Edward R: that's right that's right.
Fireman, Karen: So that's what's happening online.
Jones, Edward R: it'll say unable to open and then it'll fail.
Fireman, Karen: Right.
Jones, Edward R: that's right because it's trying to open and if it can't if the files not there if it doesn't see the file it can't open it it's going to fail.
Because they can't go any faster.
Jones, Edward R: yeah.
Jones, Edward R: Now some people would put an exit or you know, an exit out right in here underneath that pretty but I didn't bother with it.
Jones, Edward R: So, are you are you getting the exception on able to open.
Fireman, Karen: yeah and I don't know why, but maybe I just rerun the Colonel another work, maybe nope same problem.
Jones, Edward R: it's No, this is a standard text file.
excel.
Jones, Edward R: So you want to make sure that you, you have the full.
Fireman, Karen: text oh okay Thank you, Sir, I see it now, thank you got it it's in texts, not an xml got it.
Jones, Edward R: Right.
Jones, Edward R: yeah i'm not using pandas here we're just using the standard Python read text file.
Jones, Edward R: And then, what happens is it comes when it actually prints out the sentiment, for you here.
Jones, Edward R: And then it does have the second time showing a different technique, the same you're getting the same number.
Jones, Edward R: In one case i'm using response document underscore sentiment and then the other case i'm using client to analyze sentiment.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, give you the same number.
Jones, Edward R: Then it goes forward and.
Jones, Edward R: It is now going to look at the sentiment for each sentence in this document.
Jones, Edward R: You can do that, and so it says for sentence.
Jones, Edward R: In response response dot sentences.
Jones, Edward R: So this is something that the Google people that provided for us the ability to sort of automatically go through a document and look at each sentence separately.
Jones, Edward R: So this in some cases, could be useful, because you, you could see well, is there any expression of real negative content somewhere in the documents, and so the identify the sentence, where this occurs or positive where this occurs right.
Jones, Edward R: So in this little for loop for sentence and response synthesis allows you to go through the document and for each sentence do whatever you want.
Jones, Edward R: And in this case, what we're doing is we're actually looking at the sentiment score for each sentence separately.
Jones, Edward R: And you'll see at the bottom here, then it prints out it's showing you sentence, you know number one number two number three actually given you the text for that sentiment.
Jones, Edward R: And then the score now most of these are scoring zero this, this is, overall, overall, this the score zero for the entire document.
Jones, Edward R: But there are a couple places where it sounds a little negative to the system and negative point to here for that sentence and negative point one.
Jones, Edward R: not terribly bad, but most of them are neutral zero the company was founded in 1911 and is headquartered in armonk.
Jones, Edward R: New York so that's the sea rooms and then there is a there are a total of nine sentences and if you looked at the total sentiment from all of that adding up all of the ones you get a negative point one actually should have been negative, this is the.
Jones, Edward R: i'm not sure that should have been a negative point three Okay, other than that happen.
Jones, Edward R: So average total sentiment of CTI.
Jones, Edward R: that's weird.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Because like i've got one since.
Fireman, Karen: Waiting aren't you waiting it by the length of a sentence, so that it's not just every.
Jones, Edward R: Well, no that's a different that's a different different things, so this is.
Jones, Edward R: This is the number right here says average sentiment.
Jones, Edward R: And so that's.
Jones, Edward R: Oh wait a minute, this makes this is correct yeah, no, no, the other one up there, the total sentiment, the total sentiment is this thing called is in e se mti total sentiment, then you can see that's just the collection of the addition of each sentiment score right here.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: i'll have to go back and take a look into the mode to look at this but it looks like is the scenario that, because this is a negative to hear.
Jones, Edward R: negative point two, and a negative point one here, it should have been a negative point three or unless there's some positive one here so oh there it is okay positive point to the top.
Jones, Edward R: So there's a positive that positive point to we kills the negative two and it's right okay.
Jones, Edward R: So more and more information, so this is how you do the entire document.
Jones, Edward R: Larger document anyway.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, one more to that will look at here and then we'll going to take a break there's one.
Jones, Edward R: If we go to that week for folder there's one called in LP three and so i'm going to download that nlp three.
Jones, Edward R: And, and then move that over into the same area.
Fireman, Karen: Does it go inside text or excel or something.
Fireman, Karen: No okay.
Jones, Edward R: This this is code.
Jones, Edward R: Right nlp three.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: looks like it's having trouble coming down I guess everybody's doing the same time.
Jones, Edward R: Okay looks like that came down and open it up now, this file is going to require one of the other files to and.
Jones, Edward R: You know p3.
Jones, Edward R: same sort of deal, except that this case we're.
Jones, Edward R: we're going to read.
Jones, Edward R: html, this is a webpage.
Jones, Edward R: This is.
Jones, Edward R: A web page from a newspaper in Lhasa on Mexico it's in English.
Jones, Edward R: But if you take a look at the webpage you can see.
Jones, Edward R: let's say.
Jones, Edward R: If you're if you're the URL for the web pages here, if you want to take a look at it, but basically what they're talking about is you're going to be a tourist and muzzle on how do you get the covert test.
Jones, Edward R: So they set up a system, the hotel South that allow their people that tourists to visit to get a covert test, so they get back in United States fly back and.
Jones, Edward R: i'm sure they're making money on that somebody's making money on that, but at any rate, this is a demonstration of how you process html webpage and so.
Jones, Edward R: What i'm doing here is i've downloaded the webpage as html and it's an html page is to text file and i'm reading that, as you would just an ordinary text file and the only thing that's different here is the type for the document, instead of saying type plain text it's saying type html.
Jones, Edward R: And the encoding type is still ut of eight.
Jones, Edward R: And then, this goes about basically reading the html and assigning the sentiment to that so i'm going to run this oops.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Name contents is not defined.
Jones, Edward R: Did it error here yeah there it out oh it doesn't I don't have that file.
Jones, Edward R: In my text area.
Jones, Edward R: So I have to download that as well.
Jones, Edward R: So if I go blaming it we right here.
Fireman, Karen: Saving that file I save as and I gave it that name and I put it in text, and then it seems to not think it's there.
Jones, Edward R: You know, to.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: Karen you can't save it as a text because of html file, you need to right click on it and shape link as.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: And then you'll be able to download it as html file.
Fireman, Karen: Right click it it doesn't give us save link as choice, it just gives us even as choice it's not going to work.
Coleman, Clay: that'll work.
Fireman, Karen: When I tell it to call it that it doesn't listen.
Jones, Edward R: You just go copy here.
Fireman, Karen: Who do you mean.
Jones, Edward R: well.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Fireman, Karen: I like the name and I tell it the ending period html but it doesn't find it.
Jones, Edward R: yeah i'm having the same problem during because I can right click on this on this pad.
Jones, Edward R: This will get this like white clicking.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Fireman, Karen: It isn't.
Like all right.
Coleman, Clay: Brian also put it in the chat if you want it, if you scroll up a little bit there's a file that's already saved.
Fireman, Karen: Oh, thank you.
Fireman, Karen: Thank you.
Fireman, Karen: Brian.
The.
Fireman, Karen: URL that's what it does.
Coleman, Clay: So we now know the name.
Coleman, Clay: Know it's an H well.
Fireman, Karen: This is.
Coleman, Clay: ya know I say that but it's an html file.
Fireman, Karen: So we changed to you what says URLs html.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: there's another one we just.
Coleman, Clay: yeah there's another one right there.
Fireman, Karen: Okay.
Ryan David: I just posted white can grab that one that's an html.
Fireman, Karen: Thank you, sorry that.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Thank you.
Jones, Edward R: Alright it's now.
Jones, Edward R: 715 let's take a break until 730 and come back at 730.
Fireman, Karen: That they put in their works in the chat it's Karen.
Fireman, Karen: That that file is saved in there for the html it works.
Jones, Edward R: Alright it's.
Jones, Edward R: 730 so let's go ahead and get back on time here.
Jones, Edward R: Just a nerd marine one of the drones here it's got red propellers.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so one more thing we want to talk about before we get on to the drone so that is classification and so, if you go into into that the nlp folder on the week six you'll see a code labeled.
Jones, Edward R: nlp classified, and this is an example, the classification is more varied thing you can pull out sentences and classify them and classify entire document you can also assign.
Jones, Edward R: sentiments to the classification is just pretty pretty unusual things that you can do with this, but we're going to look at the simple thing which is.
Jones, Edward R: How do you take a document, especially a business document and automatically classify so where would this be useful, well, you might remember the Enron trial in Houston where you had these guys were doing some funny things with the energy company in rhyme.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Jones, Edward R: I hope we guys.
Jones, Edward R: Right yeah I hope we're not going to go through one of those again but at any rate the, the bottom line there is that when they went to court.
Jones, Edward R: They the state that had to prove that these people were misusing the funds mismanaging the corporation, and in order to do that, they asked for they wanted to introduce this evidence and the trial.
Jones, Edward R: email about 40,000 email, and it just says no, you can't do that you have to read every single email that is presented as evidence and you have to tell us why you're presenting it so.
Jones, Edward R: What they did was they had some people write a program to go through and read that the actually read the email looking for contact.
Jones, Edward R: And so, this sort of thing about classifying would be very useful if you had to go through thousands of emails looking for the emails that had certain types of content.
Jones, Edward R: And so, this is more or less automatic way to do that it's the sort of thing that Google does well, which is searching.
Jones, Edward R: A search engine right, so this is just a massive search engine on text saying that Okay, are these categories of topics in that in that document.
Jones, Edward R: And then it's going to come back and tell you If REACH document, yes, it will get you a he actually gives you a.
Jones, Edward R: Confidence number between zero and one, the larger the number of the more confident, they are that this is a topic that's in that document.
Jones, Edward R: So we're going to look at how we do that it's it's also using the same package language package and so please download this this little file called Google in LP underscore classified dot P y.
Jones, Edward R: And also, if you could create another folder in your directory called corporations and inside that folder let's download these.
Jones, Edward R: three cases, so now, you could have as many documents in this folder as you'd like but we're only using three year, for you know for time purposes, but.
Jones, Edward R: In reality, you would have thousands of documents in here, and one of the things that you might, for example, think about is let's suppose that you want to classify hotel reviews and so you might have so many thousands of those, and this is one way one approach to doing that.
Jones, Edward R: Once you've downloaded that also at the top level put in this file here is called index file, no, no txt know it's Ls or anything like that, just a file called index file.
Jones, Edward R: At the top, this is actually a Python directory if you open it up it's a text file that has a Python directory in it and and it's just abused by the program so i'm going to go ahead and open up the program in LP classify.
Jones, Edward R: And then over here.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: Do open it up here you'll see there are a lot of functions, we have two of them that look for failure, they should be very familiar to us, they get to text sentiment.
Jones, Edward R: and get text classification we've been using those in the previous program but now we have a bunch more dealing with one here's one called classify so you give it some text and it'll classify the text that's in that document.
Jones, Edward R: And then there's another one here called query.
Jones, Edward R: And this is to query text.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: This is.
Jones, Edward R: query category, so you can give it a file and ask whether or not a particular category string.
Jones, Edward R: Is in that text now the list of categories that are available from Google are at this URL the list of available labels, the calling them labels or categories is available here at this particular URL and.
Jones, Edward R: I haven't.
Jones, Edward R: Really.
Jones, Edward R: curious to see what that what that looks like.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: see if I can pull this.
Jones, Edward R: Content categories okay.
Jones, Edward R: So you can see, adults this number one category and then arts and entertainment of all sorts music performing arts and autos it's alphabetical so.
Jones, Edward R: This is very just a very general broad lists search list right, so if you're if you're saying i'm going to see, for example, aging.
Jones, Edward R: Healthy aging in geriatrics you know, maybe I want to see if other any particular set of documents contain some opinion on that or discussion of that, then I could launch the specify that we're getting ready to do.
Jones, Edward R: And so.
Jones, Edward R: that's a massive search engine.
Jones, Edward R: So we're going to do that what's going to happen there are a bunch of functions up here that that you can explore and might want to try using in your projects, or whatever you want to do.
Jones, Edward R: But we're going to have a directory called corporation, in this case, and what I did was the Alpha vantage has the ability to download the corporate.
Jones, Edward R: For any corporation it's listed download the the description of that corporation, and so we right now in corporate folder corporations, we have three.
Jones, Edward R: descriptions, we have one for IBM, and I think one for alpha Seneca and the other one is I forget the name of it but it's there we'll find out we're going to see that in just a minute.
Jones, Edward R: So when you run this it's going to go into a directory and every document in that directory is going to be classified is going to use this classification engine.
Jones, Edward R: On each one of those files separately, so this is this format is a little different we don't have an excel file where you're looking at each row.
Jones, Edward R: And then that sort of thing we have a directory, and in that directory, we have a collection of you know, documents and we're going through all of that, so let me run this and we'll see what what comes out of that.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: Let me see i'm trying to.
Jones, Edward R: Get that out of the way again.
Jones, Edward R: Back to zoom.
Jones, Edward R: and turn off.
Jones, Edward R: Video panel again.
Jones, Edward R: So, if you look at the output, which is here, there are three files IBM.
Jones, Edward R: API oh it's apple and a CN is alphas zenica I think it's what they pronounce.
Jones, Edward R: So you can see, IBM, of course, it's categories, computers and electronics enterprise technology IQ score of point seven three high score.
Jones, Edward R: And then, a business and industrial business services, a little bit lower score apple consumer and electronics consumer same sort of thing consumer electronics confidence, point six six.
Jones, Edward R: Maybe there's some confusion at their website their in their description and then this is the alpha zenica they're the folks are making the back, one of the vaccines.
Jones, Edward R: And you can see, business and adjustable form of schools sickles in biotech point nine three yes and also help Point six nine or seven, so this is like I say is useful if you have a large collection of documents, and you know you want to go through and classify those documents.
Jones, Edward R: Now.
Jones, Edward R: let's talk about just briefly the assignments, so far, for I may add a little bit to this tomorrow, but if you right now, if you go into week six.
Jones, Edward R: And if you look at.
Jones, Edward R: The week six assignment open this up.
Jones, Edward R: you'll see something that's familiar, this is the homework assignment from week three so you have that code.
Jones, Edward R: And what i'm saying is let's modify it so instead of adjusted close here we're going to make this button and i'm going to make it called replace with narrative.
Jones, Edward R: I just going to call it narrative and so what's going to happen is when you click on that button, instead of getting a graph here you're going to get the description for that company, this will be coming in from alpha vantage.
Jones, Edward R: And so you're going to instead of putting a graph inside of the text area you're just going to put the description of the company, this is easier actually.
Jones, Edward R: Now, the new thing you see this checkbox list here, which is really cool and cute looking we're going to replace that with something called a spin box.
Jones, Edward R: I don't know where that name came from, but if you Google spin box spi n Bo X you'll see that it's a widget in the tk.
Jones, Edward R: version of widgets not in the TT K.
Jones, Edward R: And now, this you're going to see a spin box and just a minute okay i'll show you what one looks like very cool they're very easy to set up.
Jones, Edward R: And you can basically have a list of stuff you click on this list and select the one that you want.
Jones, Edward R: So that's what you'll have here is will have a list of 15 to 20 or more corporations, you can click on any one of those and it will then select that one.
Jones, Edward R: And you will give you if you want the price the closing price, the volume and also the narrative for that company.
Jones, Edward R: And not just the narrative but the category classification for that company, so now, this is going to require more artistic programming.
Jones, Edward R: So you want to have the text that coming out and then at the top, or the bottom, the categories for that company.
Jones, Edward R: So you'd have a category description and then the confidence point 9.8 whatever it is, and usually there are two or three categories for each company, so you want to maybe have some room for that okay.
Jones, Edward R: we'll we can talk more about this during the Q amp a, but I think that's a reason it's going to require you learn something about the.
Jones, Edward R: spin box, which by the way, you're going to see it here in a minute really easy and you're going to have to go back to this APP and and retool it.
Jones, Edward R: Reuse it, so to speak, so I think it's very cool now i'm thinking, maybe you want to add something to this and what what I want to add to the assignment.
Jones, Edward R: Is, I would like each of the each of you that are paired with you should at this point be have a partner one or groups of two or three.
Jones, Edward R: And what i'd like to see is i'd like to see a description, and this is be one or one or two, paragraph description it doesn't have to be anything more than one page.
Jones, Edward R: Of what you want to do, for your project for this class now i've already got gotten a couple of responses like that.
Jones, Edward R: And my intention is to use the next two weeks to get caught up on grading and also to.
Jones, Edward R: Look at these look over the descriptions of the projects and give you feedback on that and, but when we get back after the next class well when we get our next class one of the things that we're going to do is we're going to get down to talking about what those projects look like now.
Jones, Edward R: These projects don't have to cure world hunger it's not a cast capstone and I think it's just something you find interesting to do.
Jones, Edward R: I mentioned one of the things today is, you might want to somebody might want to compare the eighth instead of it or other set of us to Google.
Jones, Edward R: and try to understand why the how they're different and why they're different How does Google actually develop the sentiment, I found no documentation on the details.
Jones, Edward R: I can only infer by looking at other stuff that they do, and what I saw that says yeah they were using a neural there's probably a neural network model on this, but the details on the documentation on that I didn't say no that's kind of exists somewhere.
Jones, Edward R: Because if somebody there, by the way, if you use these tools, you have to pay Google money right so.
Jones, Edward R: I would imagine if somebody is using these tools and paying for the sentiment calculations that somebody is told somebody and all of its you want the details go look at document X.
Jones, Edward R: Something like that so um do you think that that exists, so that would be kind of a cool project now other types of projects might be, you know those things of translating text to a voice and so forth, and so on, you might come up with a cool widget that allows kids to learn Spanish.
Jones, Edward R: Through this widget right so.
Jones, Edward R: Some of the things you might do is say the you know the maybe the the the widget speaks to them in Spanish, and then they have to type it in.
Jones, Edward R: What they think what they think it means, and then the thing actually translates in comparison so forth, and so on.
Jones, Edward R: So it's kind of a, in fact, when I was taking those you know Spanish in school that would have been a cool thing to have it sounds like Okay, I suspect there are Apps like that now, then they they have different ways to do that.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: You know so things like that, and with some of the other things we've done with the Googles and the end the day advantage.
Jones, Edward R: Of the business analysis, using the off advantage information we've just scratched the surface on that, so you might want to do that, like, for example here and they say homework three you have a time series right.
Jones, Edward R: Now you guys already had a time series class last summer was it or was it the.
Jones, Edward R: fall fall yeah, so this is what is this is this a ar one is this an ar two.
Jones, Edward R: Is this a.
Jones, Edward R: I am i'm a one or something like that, but is this, and so you might.
Jones, Edward R: Allow that kind of investigation with this APP and you might, for example, have there there's a process called auto arena, where people do basically a grid search on different are remodels.
Jones, Edward R: Air one or two and so forth, and so on, and find the best model and then fit it to the data that you could you could do all that right in this area here to showing the the analysis, the results of the analysis, the forecasts and so forth.
Jones, Edward R: That could be pretty and off depending upon how far you're going to take it, I don't expect you're going to do, the whole thing okay.
Jones, Edward R: That would be that would be we're talking months.
Jones, Edward R: To do a really good job on something like that, instead, I would be expecting something like.
Jones, Edward R: Okay i'm going to fit an error one model this and show you the forecast and show you some goodness of fit of that okay.
Jones, Edward R: or they are two or something like that, or maybe maybe you know you click on your sandbox to to tell me what what you want to want you want to you want to three, what do you want.
Jones, Edward R: i'm going to fit the air, water, the two or what have you and then i'm going to give you a measure of goodness of fit.
Jones, Edward R: Based upon that model and.
Jones, Edward R: or it could be something like a Durban Watson statistics that you calculate where you're looking at whether or not it's an error one model fits that puts the data.
Jones, Edward R: You might look at differently, you know, like Okay, if I do a different scene on this series this it right now, is there a trend here is somebody probably not but.
Jones, Edward R: You know if you had a model where you're looking at the trend of some sort you, I want to look at some different seem to see.
Jones, Edward R: If I take the first differences does I get rid of that trend and this look like random noise.
Jones, Edward R: You know, one of the first things you do with the time series you look at first and second differences to see.
Jones, Edward R: Whether or not it, it looks like random noise and then you fit that noise to an air or water, what have you so some some fun things here if you're interested in time series that you could be doing.
Jones, Edward R: With this kind of APP now we're going to start talking about drones today, and you could look at doing some Apps on that to.
Jones, Edward R: Some programs on the on on drones so the main thing i'd like to get to with our drone thing is how do you write a program so that the the drone goes over and drops off the package.
Jones, Edward R: So you you somebody tells you an address, and you figure out the coordinates and then you go drop off the package, how do you do that.
Jones, Edward R: So you giving you giving the you know the direction and how far it is and that sort of thing now these drones that we're working with here are a little bit limited.
Jones, Edward R: You cannot fly them more than about 100 feet away, otherwise you lose the signal and the they they say they'll go up 200 feet I don't believe it.
Jones, Edward R: I think the reception on these this is limited, so you be aware of that is that you have the you basically have to stay within about 50 to 100 feet of where wherever you are.
Jones, Edward R: And what anyway let's let's go ahead and talk about the drones then, if you can so we're done talking about Python per se well not entirely done.
Jones, Edward R: But we are you know done with talking about natural language processing for tonight and now we're going to switch over and talk about drones so.
Jones, Edward R: hang on here.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, some of you may have already made a purchase a drone some of you may not and there's no requirement to purchase one, but if you have a look at this i'm going to show you what you're going to see.
Jones, Edward R: There are two different kinds of tella drones there's one called the EDU version which is, I think about $25 or $30 more expensive it's about.
Jones, Edward R: 125 for the EDU version and it's about 89 or $90 plus tax for the non EDU version now, this is to show you what it looks like i'm going to open it up here, so it comes in a nice little box and so like protected here and.
Jones, Edward R: The open it up like a like an egg or something and lips upside down turn it around there it is so this is the EDU version i'm not sorry the the non EDU version and.
Jones, Edward R: You can see that it comes a little white miking white anyway and.
Jones, Edward R: What you'll notice is that it has four propellers each of the propellers are guarded by these little little things here now.
Jones, Edward R: One of the things you want to do with this kind of a drone is you want to just turn the propellers gently with your finger whatever make sure they do not hit the guard.
Jones, Edward R: If you try to launch one of these things, and you hear a thud won't that means propeller probably hit the guard.
Jones, Edward R: If you continue to do that you're probably going to raise up about two feet slide turn upside down and in in crash.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, now it turns out, pretty easy to fix that because you can just been these little guards a little bit to get them out of the way but it's just if you crash everybody crashes, by the way.
Jones, Edward R: If you're not crashing and having fun and so you crash, what are we going to do, typically what happens is you hit the wall, it goes it goes flat on the wall and then turns off and.
Jones, Edward R: drops down Okay, no usually 90% of the time there's no damage to the little drunk and there's no damage to your wall or anything like that one of the things you should be aware of is these propellers are turning pretty fast like 1000 rpm or so and they're very thin bladed.
Jones, Edward R: I want to tell you a story, I actually ran one was moving around and read one of these things, and it took off and hit me in the head in the face.
Jones, Edward R: And one of these little blades just a bubbly I it was enough that I was bleeding Okay, and I was thinking boy i'm glad that was not done in my eye.
Jones, Edward R: So if you are wearing a blind these around yourself yourself or other people it's a good idea to wear glasses, if you have them, or at least protect your face at all place you know.
Jones, Edward R: don't do what I did, and if you have pets.
Jones, Edward R: lot of dogs and cats are pretty inquisitive tattle think this is a bird and they'll go whoo yeah.
Jones, Edward R: I would probably not have a cat or dog in the same room with this okay.
Jones, Edward R: I have flown in large drones, by the way, outside and around the bottom 100 feet birds get interested and some birds like hawks they'll attack the drone some people have lost drones that way, believe it or not, I mean like what do you think.
Jones, Edward R: But if you think about it for a minute what happens is a drunken stuff about 100 feet and hovers.
Jones, Edward R: that's the same behaviors as a as a predator had the bird Hawk Hawk that stuff and hover said about 100 feet so they're thinking oh I got competition and go check this out right.
Jones, Edward R: So not surprising that sort of thing happens and it's always the big birds, but not is sometimes a flock of birds will come over.
Jones, Edward R: And then the flock will attack the drone like they're trying to force it out of the area, because they don't like hawks right, I mean that's what the.
Jones, Edward R: crowd man, you know how these birds run around in crowds out here that's what that's all about they want to discourage hawks from coming around.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so.
Jones, Edward R: that's what the the EDU version looks like now.
Jones, Edward R: The i'm sorry that's a non EDU version, this is the new version.
Jones, Edward R: yeah because, in the summer baggage yeah.
Jones, Edward R: The only thing that's different is really it's black instead of white, so you can tell them apart right off the BAT.
Jones, Edward R: But in addition to that it's programmed a little differently and i'll tell you about what how they're different in that way now, in addition to the drone you also get extra propellers which you may find here.
Jones, Edward R: And an accord for charging the battery and you'll come with one drone comes with one battery.
Jones, Edward R: Generally speaking, you want about three batteries i'm sorry yeah about three three batteries this.
Jones, Edward R: Is what I usually go for that's.
Jones, Edward R: Each batteries, you know $20 but in one battery one charge battery lasts about.
Jones, Edward R: 11 minutes that's for this little drone about 11 minutes and then you'll need to recharge it takes about 30 minutes to recharge.
Jones, Edward R: So it's not a you know so okay.
Jones, Edward R: What we're going to be doing one battery be sufficient, but you may find yourself getting coffee or something like that it depends on how how many times, you have to try it out different things.
Jones, Edward R: Let me show you what the battery looks like.
Jones, Edward R: Oh, by the way in the ED version, you also have.
Jones, Edward R: pads these are called mission pants and it looks looks they look odd they are and they look a little bit, but each one actually has a number on it, like, for example, this one is the number eight you see that this is the number one so each of these pads.
Jones, Edward R: And by the way, it's there's a different number on each side, so you have four pads a total of eight different possible numbers.
Jones, Edward R: And you can use these to create interesting missions, where you can tell the drone go point pad number three and it'll go over and try to do that.
Jones, Edward R: The EDU drone is the only one that comes with a pad and it's the only one that has that capability to to actually search for these pads everything else is pretty much the same between the EDU and the other the other simpler version, except for one thing.
Jones, Edward R: With EDU version, you can you can.
Jones, Edward R: Do a swarm of programming now I don't know how many of you seen a the latest cool thing you can do instead of fireworks you can have like 1000 drones.
Jones, Edward R: That fly around with lights and then show different things it's amazing if you if you haven't seen one, you should go see one of these it's pretty amazing.
Jones, Edward R: I would love to see mechanically how they actually do that, but they have each drone is on a slightly different frequency looking for a different signal.
Jones, Edward R: And they have a ray of computers and they're talking to the drones and the drones are following go right five feet go left five feet, you know that kind of thing, and so the precision is amazing these drones have only one sensor.
Jones, Edward R: And there are actually two little laser lights at the bottom of the drone they look like little eyes or little glass eyes right.
Jones, Edward R: Those are laser lights that are used to look for the ground, these are basic to almost all copter drones and what they do is.
Jones, Edward R: When they're landing they use these on takeoff and landing to determine how fire, they are above the ground so on takeoff it jumps up and hovers at about a half a meter two to three feet and those lights are used to judge, where it is and where it's hovering.
Jones, Edward R: that's called the downward sensor right but they're there they don't do much else.
Jones, Edward R: They help land and take off.
Jones, Edward R: No both both of these drones have that kind of a sensor.
Jones, Edward R: On larger drones they have sensors top bottom.
Jones, Edward R: Left right all the way around and, in fact.
Jones, Edward R: One of the things you're looking for, and as you if you're going to buy a more expensive drone is how many sensors that they have.
Jones, Edward R: And what kind of sensors are they using So these are infrared sensors they also have Lego sensors, which is a different technology that's coming out now, that is a little better than that.
Jones, Edward R: Also, the larger drones use GPS, and so they use GPS to know where they are and where you are, and so they if you say Come on, they know where you are and they can come find you and they do so by you know going up to a high altitude flying over and then coming down generally.
Jones, Edward R: Now these drones this one these also have a camera.
Jones, Edward R: And you can take pictures with this and you can you can also do video with this, and this camera is used as part of its navigation.
Jones, Edward R: So there is some intelligence there's an artificial intelligence been used to look around this and and to use that to determine where you are where it is and.
Jones, Edward R: avoid try this thing doesn't avoid very well, I mean that's a joke it easily runs into anything.
Jones, Edward R: But that's Okay, I mean you have it's basically you want something light and and something that's usable and I mean the cool thing is, we can write a Python program to tell this thing to take off land turn around run around go over here over there, the whole nine yards.
Jones, Edward R: And with the EDU version we can programs forms, so we can program two or three drones to fly simultaneously in coordination with one another, you apparently have that ability to do that.
Jones, Edward R: Now I want to do to do a little bit of this year, the question is how do you fly this thing well, there are a couple of options, the main option we're going to look at ultimately is we're going to use the computer and the computer is going to talk to the drone using bluetooth basically.
Jones, Edward R: And wi fi.
Jones, Edward R: Primarily wi fi so it sends a wi fi signal to the drone and then over that signal it since commands Python commands to the drone and says okay turn around come back you know that kind of thing.
Jones, Edward R: Most drones are they run on the wi fi type signal the same frequency, as you have at home, what does that mean, though well if you're flying it.
Jones, Edward R: You could have a little interference, so these things you'll you'll you'll experiences sometimes you'll be flying this thing around all of a sudden they'll start wandering somewhere.
Jones, Edward R: that's could be because of wi fi interference, so in the office, I have a wi fi connection and Sure enough, you know you get confused.
Jones, Edward R: The other thing that you see is because these are so light that when it gets close to an object, like a wall.
Jones, Edward R: The wind will blow off of that wall come back on the drone and push it away or bring it into the wall, so when you're about one and a half to two feet close to a wall.
Jones, Edward R: You want to watch real flesh slowly what's happening and be prepared to back out because these will tend to be I don't know, for whatever reason, the walls like magnet school.
Jones, Edward R: You know that comes in, like that the same thing can happen with if you're near person were chair, or something like that you can see the drone might actually.
Jones, Edward R: tend to move in that direction or away from that direction, based upon how that will that wind is being you know come around okay so.
Jones, Edward R: let's see here.
Jones, Edward R: So this is the battery the battery looks very small right and the way this works is it goes in the back end right here one end of it is the camera.
Jones, Edward R: And the opposite in this a battery battery goes down the the layer labeling you see the labeling on this goes down.
Jones, Edward R: And the other part, stays up and you'll see that as it goes, and it just clicks click stop like that now once you have it in that position, there is an on and off button on the maybe the right side a little turn that on.
Jones, Edward R: And you'll see some little flashing lights occur, here it goes through a secrets it's checking that system to make sure that it's okay.
Jones, Edward R: And at this point it's pretty harmless it's not running and everything, so you can hang on to it, and then, once it figures out that okay i'm okay it starts flashing yellow real quickly.
Jones, Edward R: Like that then it's ready to take off once you see the yellow flash then it's ready to respond to a command.
Jones, Edward R: If you leave it there long enough it'll go read, which means i'm getting tired of us are you going to do anything or not, and then eventually it'll shut off by itself, if you don't do anything.
Jones, Edward R: You if you're controlling this on the software, you want to look for the yellow the yellow or the quick read and then you can you know directed to take off or land or whatever you want to do.
Jones, Edward R: You can also Should you decide to have some fun and the way you do, that is, you can use your cell phone or your iPad to control this thing you can fly this thing with your iPad or SOFA.
Jones, Edward R: How do you do that well there's an APP.
Jones, Edward R: And it's called a TELCO out so you go to your favorite store.
Jones, Edward R: Online, of course, this is a free APP, by the way, but I want to show you what it looks like here, you probably have already.
Jones, Edward R: There is okay.
Jones, Edward R: Oh, there we go, so this is what when you when you.
Jones, Edward R: jump there is you're like one page ahead.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, this is not supposed to jump there.
Jones, Edward R: Now.
Jones, Edward R: No.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, when you when it starts up maybe if I do it on my phone, you can see it.
Jones, Edward R: So my phone is pretty small that's why I brought the iPad, but they do work, the same it doesn't matter whether you're on the phone you're on a smartphone.
Jones, Edward R: Here it is okay so that's what Oh, why you do, that I didn't want you to do that okay when it first comes up it hasn't black orange looking picture cool.
Jones, Edward R: And then it jumps over to this little screen that says connect I want to connect to somebody I was I did it doesn't see that APP yet this is now you still flashing okay so.
Jones, Edward R: It does see it, you see, when it does connect you disconnected this guy you can see what the camera sees So if I pick it up and move it around i'm actually the cameras on, and so I can see, on my phone what it sees like that.
Jones, Edward R: Now I think what i'm going to try to do is do it early okay.
Jones, Edward R: i'm trying to do it on this guy.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: i'd rather fly you use this, if I can rather than that because this is a lot larger.
Jones, Edward R: However.
Jones, Edward R: Oh, I know the problem is yeah you have to connect your if you're using a phone or your iPad you have to connect to the drone using wi fi so on apple there is a little wi fi setting and you go into that wi fi setting i'm going to turn it off here and i'm going to go here turn it on.
Jones, Edward R: And i'm going to.
Jones, Edward R: Okay it's on and it's not showing me all of the different networks that are available here one of them says hello, and a number serial number for that guy right there, so you choose you, you know you select hello, and it will then connect with it eventually.
Jones, Edward R: It says unsecured network, yes, Sir it's unsecured and now it's connected.
Jones, Edward R: Now, once it's connected to their.
Jones, Edward R: Then you can go to your TELCO APP.
Jones, Edward R: And you should see what the drone sees on your TELCO out in the middle of all the see that.
Jones, Edward R: So you can't see my iPad but that's what's happening here, and you notice it's flashing green.
Jones, Edward R: Green flash means i'm connected and i'm happy i'm working fine Oh, can the yellow flash is it didn't like me handling is picking it up.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so we're good there now, if you look at the drone you'll see there's an on the upper left hand corner there's an arrow pointing up that's a take off indicator okay.
Jones, Edward R: So we can use to be play punch that it's going to say, do you want to take off, yes or no yeah okay i'm going to do it by countdown 321 up okay so that's the way it works there now when it does take off it doesn't go like scrambling often and.
Jones, Edward R: It just covers with about three feet, from where he was and sits there waiting for you to do something okay now these little round circles that you see on the bottom are used to control forward back up down and so forth, and so on.
Jones, Edward R: It takes a while to get used to this, and what I would suggest you do is.
Jones, Edward R: just focus on the left hand circle for now.
Jones, Edward R: This left hand circle handles up and down and rotate.
Jones, Edward R: And you can see, if you look at the this the logos that are in that left hand circle you'll see an up arrow.
Jones, Edward R: On the top down arrow on the bottom, so that goes up it goes down and then the rotations you can see that it's going to respectfully rotate at whatever wherever it happens to be.
Jones, Edward R: Now, if you want to land this apparel here in reverses direction once it takes off you hit it again and then it'll land wherever it is so you want to make sure that.
Jones, Edward R: You know it's someplace flat it's going to land, so what i'm going to do, then, is i'm going to put this on the ground.
Jones, Edward R: like that.
Jones, Edward R: That way when it takes off and I hit land it's going to come back down about that position so i'm going to hit take off and it says, you really want to do that i'm going to say yes.
Jones, Edward R: And there you go so okay.
Fireman, Karen: where's the button.
Fireman, Karen: where's the.
Jones, Edward R: button, be careful here you got glasses okay good So you see our suffering there right it's not going anywhere now you see this little circle i'm going to hit the up arrow.
well.
Jones, Edward R: There you go.
Jones, Edward R: This.
Jones, Edward R: Making funny noise that's coming into the microphone.
Jones, Edward R: I hope it's not too annoying.
Jones, Edward R: Alright, so let's rotate.
Fireman, Karen: let's hit this round.
Jones, Edward R: On the on the left hand side.
Jones, Edward R: You just hold it down.
Jones, Edward R: And you see it through okay now 360.
Jones, Edward R: like that, and if I want to run the other direction, I think the other circle.
Jones, Edward R: and pull it.
Jones, Edward R: out like that.
Jones, Edward R: Right push it down and pull it out.
Jones, Edward R: The Hello.
Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, now, if you look on your screen.
Jones, Edward R: You should see a battery up here in the top and right now it's showing that the battery is pretty cool so we're cool cool, by the way, when you get down about 20% of your full battery it's going to land.
Jones, Edward R: it'll say i'm done i've worked enough that's it land.
Jones, Edward R: it's tell you also in the top how strong the wi fi signal is, you see the little wi fi signals okay that's that's going to show you if you get too far you're going to start losing that signal, so you want to watch that and now if I want to take a picture.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Let me turn it, let me turn this around so let's take a picture of here we go.
Jones, Edward R: yeah I got it I got you guys all right.
Jones, Edward R: The movie a little bit here all right, take a picture you hit the little white circle up the right hand corner.
Jones, Edward R: And I just took your picture.
Jones, Edward R: let's take another one for good luck and.
Jones, Edward R: let's turn over here and.
Jones, Edward R: there's janie.
Jones, Edward R: Take your picture yeah I got that.
Jones, Edward R: All right.
Jones, Edward R: And now i'm going to change this circle to read, if you push the little camera next to the circle it changed from the photograph mode to the video mode.
Jones, Edward R: And that the circle is red and I press press it like that it's the video is now recording so now it's actually recording the video and whatever I move this or turn this around.
Jones, Edward R: There we go yeah.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Jones, Edward R: We go by you're getting look differently, you know they go back up and she just sits there pretty steady in here in my office it jumps around a lot, because the room is small, so if you're doing this in a small room and don't expect that kind of behavior this is pretty cool.
Jones, Edward R: This is what safer environment than running a little office customer on that so very nice.
Jones, Edward R: And we're gonna have we're gonna have some fun here with it, so now i'm going to say land so i'm going to push the upper left hand board button, which is the air down arrow.
Jones, Edward R: And i'm going to push it once click at once, and it says tap the land or land in your hand, you can have a training to land in your hand i'm going to just say go to the ground.
Jones, Edward R: So they are typically once and now who.
Jones, Edward R: knows it's there we go, so how did they do the landing and use those little sensors sensors that so one of the things they tell you is don't fly at night, because you can see the floor and the sensors don't work if it's not enough light in the room, so be aware of that okay.
Jones, Edward R: So this is one option, you can use an iPad I think the cool nice thing about this option is, you have a pretty good picture.
Jones, Edward R: of whatever the drone is saved, so you can actually you're not supposed to do this, but you can fly this and other drones without.
Jones, Edward R: Without actually being with them, you know you can fly them into another room and see what they're seeing and then bring it back now.
Jones, Edward R: This little guy because the reception is very good that's not recommended, but for other drones you, you are, you can do that, but people do that, but your people are cautious, not to do that so okay this guy will go up to about so Paul so caught up to about 100 feet.
Jones, Edward R: yeah.
Jones, Edward R: they're not be windy might might lose the drone if you go up that high winton's to get more go up as you go up now, we have this on wi fi so i'm going to stop the wi fi here.
Jones, Edward R: disconnect basically so now, you see it's all you can't see it but it's flashing yellow instead of brain so yeah so you can use a smartphone you can use iPad you can also buy little joysticks i'll show you some time with those look like to do this as well and.
Jones, Edward R: I have a bunch of batteries here but.
Jones, Edward R: Oh yeah.
Jones, Edward R: This is really cool because one of the things that's nice about the joysticks is you can actually put your your your smartphone inside here.
Jones, Edward R: So you can see right here what's happening with your drone and then you can use these little sticks to maneuver it left, right up down and that sort of thing.
Jones, Edward R: And these drones are actually and you can also little trigger things to turn the camera on and off it's very cool and the other thing you can do is flip with causes thing to flow okay index does some has some of that kind of capability okay um.
Jones, Edward R: let's see.
Jones, Edward R: All right, at this point I just wondering, are there any questions about the basic operation of this this thing or safety or.
Jones, Edward R: Some of you probably already fund the sky I got that feeling.
Fireman, Karen: Yes, Karen I tried and it didn't it didn't connect to the wi fi the way you said, and then it asks did I wanted to use cellular so I said yes and that did work but shouldn't have worked with the wi fi didn't.
Jones, Edward R: What did you use.
Fireman, Karen: I did the Teller one like you said I went to the wi fi and I solid tell him I clicked on that when I went back and didn't seem to like it, but it said, do you want to sell her so I said sure are you sorry it was going up and down i've been a big room was it was awful.
Jones, Edward R: i'm not sure what that.
Jones, Edward R: Is your are you on an android.
Fireman, Karen: I know it's a it's a it's an.
iPhone.
yeah.
Jones, Edward R: I don't know but it's good to me if you got it okay it's fine.
Fireman, Karen: It works.
Jones, Edward R: yeah yeah somehow a you're talking wi fi though I.
Jones, Edward R: mean that's the only frequency the sky really response on.
Jones, Edward R: For us just turned itself off it's good.
Jones, Edward R: let's see so no other no questions at this point, all right okay fine now let's go to talking about programming with the oh no, no, no, no, no.
Jones, Edward R: Oh yeah let's go back to week number six and, if you look here, where it says Hello tools there's a folder called tello tools, if you look at this, there are I I downloaded the manuals and.
Jones, Edward R: They are they're not in that folder I couldn't get them in that folder SDK 1.3 SDK 2.0 EDU manual and the there's a manual on the pad submission paths okay.
Jones, Edward R: These are the four basic PDF files that are available for download some of you may have already got Nice.
Jones, Edward R: Let me just briefly describe what these are SDK 1.3 is SDK sense for software development kit So this is the library or the API that is used to communicate with the drone 1.3 was the first.
Jones, Edward R: kit that really came out and that version of API works with the non EDU drone.
Jones, Edward R: And then the 2.0 came out to work with the EDU drones so what you'll see is that two point O contains all of the commands that are available in 1.3.
Jones, Edward R: plus a few more that are not available in 1.3 and so this is describes technically the difference between the EDU drone and the non EDU drum the non EDU drone the white one will only respond to commands from 1.3.
Jones, Edward R: EDU drone will respond to commands from 2.0.
Jones, Edward R: There they are very, very similar or like.
Jones, Edward R: Certainly, the basic commands are alike, and they are only different and some of the things like mission, the mission pad commands and a few other commands that EDU response to it.
Jones, Edward R: Then there's a technical manual EDU manual that talks about the physical characteristics of the drone and this actually applies to both drones not just the EDU drunk.
Jones, Edward R: physically, there are no different there are no obvious differences physically it's all the all the difference of the drones is in the software, also the only the software.
Jones, Edward R: By the way, when you power everyone every once while you are a power it up using your smartphone or your iPad to make sure that there's no an update on firm was called firmware update.
Jones, Edward R: And so, when it happens, you want to connect to your drone and then you can go through the APP to download the update and then install it in in the drone itself.
Jones, Edward R: So the drone is like a little computer there is software in there and it is there is a version number and you want to update that when you have an update.
Jones, Edward R: The EDU manual I think talks a little bit about that the mission pads that that's just a brief discussion of what those paths look like and how they can be used.
Jones, Edward R: And then there is a file here called tell them basic that P, why i'd like you to download that and we're going to open that up in spider now.
Jones, Edward R: First of all, you're probably going to I have to do this, I have to get out of spider I have to shut it down because I have two different kinds of environments that i've created, I have a Google environment.
Jones, Edward R: And then, I have a drone environment so they're the the libraries for the drone are not installed in the Google environment and i'm going to install them or i'm going to open up spider after I change the environment.
Jones, Edward R: To the drone.
Jones, Edward R: So if I go here into into.
Jones, Edward R: anaconda you see right now, the environment is that i'm set up to use this label drone and if I change that to sorry it's labeled Google now i'm going to change it to drone and see what happens here, it should change environments for me.
Jones, Edward R: Sometimes this doesn't work well, sometimes the environment doesn't change over, and I have to actually shut down anaconda and restart anaconda and then select the the environment that I want and i'm not sure.
Jones, Edward R: Jamie do you happen to know why that might be the case, why.
Jones, Edward R: Have you have you run into that.
Jones, Edward R: yeah no.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so i've changed over to the drone environment here.
Jones, Edward R: The difference is that in the drone environment, I have this installed the easy tello library, and this is a pip install you want to say pip install easy tell him he as y te Hello so i'm going to launch that.
Jones, Edward R: That environment right now with the spider is launch under that environment.
Jones, Edward R: And i'll show you.
Jones, Edward R: When we do the condo list what that looks like.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: So, right now, you can see it's all of the Google.
Jones, Edward R: programs, who were working on earlier coming up i'm going to shut them down so that.
Jones, Edward R: keeps trying to sell me spider 4.2 or something.
Jones, Edward R: yeah.
Jones, Edward R: writing.
Jones, Edward R: Now what i'm going to do is download tell a basic P, why.
Jones, Edward R: From the week six folder.
Jones, Edward R: And i'm going to put that in into the area that and then using.
Jones, Edward R: OK.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: Now I have to move it out of the download the area, I believe it and to where it is.
Jones, Edward R: And i'm going to copy and paste that.
Jones, Edward R: into my folder.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, apparently, I have an older version.
Jones, Edward R: We make sure that happened right.
Jones, Edward R: yeah okay looking good so i'm going to open that up and spider now.
Jones, Edward R: Before I do that, though let's let's do one thing here let's go Condor list.
Jones, Edward R: and see what i'm talking about the library.
Jones, Edward R: And so there's a package.
Jones, Edward R: And it's called easy tello.
Jones, Edward R: EA.
Jones, Edward R: T shirts here.
Jones, Edward R: rate they're easy to follow and it's showing up as version 0.0 Point seven Now you can go to the github for the easy tello and you'll see that easy tello is a simple set of code, there are two major files one called stats stats dot P y and the other one called.
Jones, Edward R: And you can read the code and see and learn a lot about what this package is doing and not doing it doesn't do everything.
Jones, Edward R: But it does the basics to get that sort of thing so we're going to be doing now to install this package, I think I just used.
Jones, Edward R: I don't believe a con to kinda installed didn't work, this is one of those pip easy to Hello pip install easy to be sure you're in the environment wanna you operate in.
Jones, Edward R: You can put it in with the Google stuff I decided just to separate the two, but you know you might want to put them together, I don't this matter here.
Jones, Edward R: That you're trying to work.
Jones, Edward R: But.
Fireman, Karen: I tried to do that it didn't work so it's.
Jones, Edward R: No, it didn't work didn't like you didn't like the Google stuff.
Fireman, Karen: i'm not sure i'm starting a new one now yeah.
Jones, Edward R: yeah well, it could be and whoa I know what it is, oh there's one other thing that's you definitely have to install.
Jones, Edward R: And that is open CV down here.
Jones, Edward R: it's you'll see.
Jones, Edward R: it's MP, an open.
Jones, Edward R: open air, it is open CV.
Jones, Edward R: is right here, it says open CV dash Python this is, I believe you this is a condo install I think you can go Connor install open CV, and that is a package that is used for video analysis.
Jones, Edward R: that's why it's theirs, because you want to capture video off of a drone your CV package is the most likely one to use open CV dash Python.
Jones, Edward R: This is it says on the right hand side, it says P, why API, which means that the I was wrong it didn't economy install it's not going to work there you're going to have to pip pip install open CV, I believe, but.
Jones, Edward R: That needs to be there as well, and I think that's a little bit of a conflict with some of the other Google stuff we were doing but I don't i'm not sure.
Jones, Edward R: You could could run into a problem there but OK, so we were going to open up the.
Jones, Edward R: That program that I just mentioned and.
Jones, Edward R: it's called.
Jones, Edward R: tello.
Jones, Edward R: Basic dot P, why.
Jones, Edward R: Only it's not that basic the started this started out as a basic project, but it turns out that it a bit more than basic now Okay, so this code that you're looking at how many lines.
Jones, Edward R: 541 lines okay.
Jones, Edward R: So for the next two weeks, if you want to have some fun take a look at this code and you'll learn that on using a lot of spin boxes here now i'm not sure let's see.
Jones, Edward R: If crank this up.
Jones, Edward R: And we're going to see.
Jones, Edward R: me whether I have everything installed here.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, there is a problem.
Jones, Edward R: going on.
Jones, Edward R: Oh, I need to create the directory drone underscore I n g.
Jones, Edward R: OK so.
Jones, Edward R: i'm going to close this down for a minute.
Jones, Edward R: And this is where i'm, this is the directory i'm using so i'm going to.
Jones, Edward R: file new folder.
Jones, Edward R: And what was it called drone image.
Jones, Edward R: On the score IMG.
Jones, Edward R: I think that's the name of the directory.
Jones, Edward R: drone underscore IMG, and this is basically a directory, I think that it's been used to store, the images that it creates images and so forth, let me see if that's if that's going to work now.
Jones, Edward R: It says.
Jones, Edward R: No such file or directory drone underscore I am g.
Jones, Edward R: And so i'm going to start.
Faculty Office Hours: hey Dr Jones is looking for the images for you.
Jones, Edward R: Know it's looking for this image.
Jones, Edward R: In a yeah there's a there is an image that I use in this gooey.
Jones, Edward R: That I forgot to upload okay what line is this that 20 no.
Jones, Edward R: It looks like it's right here.
Jones, Edward R: line at one.
Jones, Edward R: i'll get you this image.
Jones, Edward R: When I get home but it's someone other computer obviously so line at one.
Jones, Edward R: Oh wait a minute.
Jones, Edward R: All of these images that's right.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so we're not going to be able to run this until I get all those images in there.
Jones, Edward R: yeah yeah wait a minute.
Jones, Edward R: Did I miss I can't believe I missed that up but it's possible okay.
Jones, Edward R: So you need that directory, but I need a bunch of I use a lot of graphics inside inside of this gooey.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: looks like they're not on this computer.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Let me, let me double check over here.
Jones, Edward R: nope it's that's no that's that's too bad okay.
Jones, Edward R: I will, I will bring those I will put those up on the week six folder tonight when I get back.
Jones, Edward R: yeah in order to use this this gooey you'll you'll see what I get I actually created a bunch of images and so the circles that you saw on the APP.
Jones, Edward R: I have a circle, I have two circles and two circles and then inside those circles, I have little icons that represent up down left or right, you know that sort of thing.
Jones, Edward R: you'll see let's just take a look here for a second at what this is going to look like, so if I if you go here to line, let me make this larger.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, if you go to line number 80.
Jones, Edward R: you'll see it says new size 50 comma 100 i'm taking an image, the image is called take off the PNG it's a PNG image and it's it's actually a little circle, with an arrow similar to what you saw on the Tele.
Jones, Edward R: And i'm resizing it, I mean it's very difficult to get exactly the right size, you want, so this.
Jones, Edward R: set of instructions you just see is typically what you do if you want to resize an image and then use it in the gooey or somewhere else, maybe a web page or something like that.
Jones, Edward R: Now, if you look at the the intro import things you see it says import from ppl import image tk and image now.
Jones, Edward R: This may or may not require an install I can't I can't recall a PL is the is we've used us in the best it's the it's the photo image library.
Jones, Edward R: And it's used to manipulate images, you know photographs and also video.
Jones, Edward R: So we're important image tk for the gooey and then image.
Jones, Edward R: And if we go back to line number at.
Jones, Edward R: lipson little bit too far, there.
Jones, Edward R: you'll see that I want i'm taking the end of the the raw image and i'm resizing it is 50 a with the 50 pixels and a height of 100 so in in the tinker.
Jones, Edward R: Though it's always with pipe with tight with this, the first number height is the second number, and these are pixels, and so it says image open.
Jones, Edward R: image path, and so this is just showing you where that image should be it's not there, and you image, a year you're opening that image and placing it into a variable called off image meaning of land that take off.
Jones, Edward R: And then we're resizing to the.
Jones, Edward R: And then we use the image tk photo image to actually create a photo image.
Jones, Edward R: object that is required by to tinker to be if you're going to use it as a button.
Jones, Edward R: So you can't just take any image like a jar file or PNG file and use it as a tinker, but you have to go through this this gymnastics that you see here, you have to get it to the right size and then you have to create a photo image object from image tk.
Jones, Edward R: And then, once you do that, you can see, the next one, it says tk button not TT K tk button.
Jones, Edward R: And because the tk button lets you use images to represent the button.
Jones, Edward R: So you can with the tk widget you can make a button of any size or shape basically by jury getting an image shaping it and then saying okay here's my image object and and set that setting the image here equal to that object.
Jones, Edward R: And then your tk button it's going into the top left frame.
Jones, Edward R: And then the command if this is pressed take off.
Jones, Edward R: there's a function down below called take off.
Jones, Edward R: And then you have the width and the height of the button 5100 the same thing as a resize.
Jones, Edward R: them.
Jones, Edward R: And then the next one i'm doing the land button right here the land button, the same structure, I bring in the file that contains the photo the picture simple picture and then I resize it and I make it that and I associate that with the land.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, with me on this.
Jones, Edward R: All right, let's go down below where these functions take off and land or and take it as you see what happens here, so this is all good stuff and then.
Jones, Edward R: Then here are the functions.
Jones, Edward R: here's take off and here's land okay.
Jones, Edward R: let's talk about land versus South smaller land, it says if self dot fly is true so there's this variable called fly, which is true if it's off the ground and false if it's down on the ground at least it's supposed to be that way if it crashes, it may still think it's flying.
Jones, Edward R: that's the problem so.
Jones, Edward R: So again, the I just print on the.
Jones, Edward R: Python window land and then the command is from easy, this is an easy tello command drone land that pretty easy right.
Jones, Edward R: so easy tello gives you these kind of commands that you could that will automatically go out to the drone drone dot lands now, it turns out that each before you can start giving the commands to the drone you have to issue a connect message and that's a simple command command.
Jones, Edward R: And if you if you issue that that message command the drone should turn to green the little light on the front of the drone show turned to green if it doesn't.
Jones, Edward R: Then it did not connect and you have to restart basically and sometimes have to do two or three restarts, and each time you restart you have to restart the Colonel.
Jones, Edward R: A who you can't just restart you have to restart the colonel, and the reason for that is because, when you're doing this sort of thing the Colonel the approved the computer actually links up to the drone on a radio frequency.
Jones, Edward R: And when you stop the program the drum thinks that link is still still listening for that signal, I know you're out there somewhere i'm just waiting i'm just waiting.
Jones, Edward R: So you can't just kill the program because that does not kill the link the little drone is still waiting to hear something right, so you have to restart the kernel which completely drops that link Okay, the the connection the wi fi connection will be dropped, no more restart.
Jones, Edward R: So that's why you have to go through that business is because of that that wi fi connection now, if you look at the tape the tape off it's a little more complicated.
Jones, Edward R: Because.
Jones, Edward R: The crash phenomenon you land, but it didn't didn't really reset The fly button, so I checked the height.
Jones, Edward R: So I say drone dot get hype that's another easy telecom man, and that will give you that will tell you how high it is off the off of the area that it took off from it should be zero if it's on the ground.
Jones, Edward R: And it could actually be negative, if you take off on a table and then lamb that over on the ground, or something like that it could be negative, but obviously if it's zero or less it's not flying so you're checking there is if the height is less than one.
Jones, Edward R: Then the fly should be false and then you check them to see as the power on.
Jones, Edward R: Which means is, are we connected, we got power, the power really means that the bike bicycle is connected, we got a green flash on the on the drone and then you just set.
Jones, Edward R: Fire to true and.
Jones, Edward R: The command is actually your drone takeoff is the AC DC telecom in if you want to know the complete list of these commands.
Jones, Edward R: You can go to.
Jones, Edward R: The manuals that we talked about here.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: These guys right here.
Jones, Edward R: You can you can open up 1.3 or 2.0 if you have EDU i'd open up 2.0 i'm going to go ahead and open up 2.0.
Jones, Edward R: And here we go.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Jones, Edward R: This is 2.0 and.
Jones, Edward R: This is telling you upfront about sin command, you have to send the command fans the to get it to actually operate first, but then once it's operated, these are the commands so like up X.
Jones, Edward R: means rates go up in altitude X centimeters so, then our normal value for X would be 20 or 30 or 40 or 50, but it could go all the way up to 500.
Jones, Edward R: So 500 that would be more like five meters were up and up so that would be like almost 15 feet right, so you don't say 500 in your House, unless you got a really tall ceiling.
Jones, Edward R: that's Okay, by the way, if you say 500 is going to go up and hit the ceiling bounce off and try to keep trying to go through that ceiling.
Jones, Edward R: And finally it'll hit something and crash, but then you have left left X again, you should be a number between 20 and 500 forward and back CW means rotate clockwise CCW rotate counterclockwise and those are degrees, so if you say CW 360 it's going to go clockwise 360 degrees.
Jones, Edward R: And then there's a flip and you can flip left right forward or back, and that means that the drone will actually flip to the left or to the right completely over and then reset itself and.
Jones, Edward R: it's kind of cute not very functional it's cute it's kind of cool Okay, and then you can say go xyz speed and what that means is I want you to go to the xyz coordinates.
Jones, Edward R: And so, this is a three dimensional things Z represents the hype.
Jones, Edward R: X and y represent the directions over the ground.
Jones, Edward R: And then speed can be anything between what does it say 10 and 100 usually around 50.
Jones, Edward R: But the higher, the number, the faster that it that it actually goes there so.
Jones, Edward R: The there are some fancy ones like curve and you see this as go X, Y Z speed mid that's the mission pad instruction so that's not in 1.3 that instruction is not in 1.3 won't work with a non a EDU drone.
Jones, Edward R: and
Jones, Edward R: Then you have read commands like the speed question mark Atlanta is basically a returns, the current speed of the drone.
Jones, Edward R: Battery question mark what percentage of batteries left so it'll start with like 99 and then go down to 2010 once it drops below 2010 it's going to land.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, in fact it won't even start and then so if you're trying to start the drone and they won't start check the battery is if it's less than 10% capacity it's not going to start.
Jones, Edward R: It will he refuses to take off with less than 10% battery time is how long it's been running not how long it's been turned on, but how long it's actually in the air.
Jones, Edward R: wi fi that's showing you the strength of the signal, the higher the number, the better so 90 would be perfect on wi fi and then 20 or 10 not so good.
Jones, Edward R: SDK will tell you what kind of what version of SDK is is being used by the controller, and then SN is the serial number for the for the drone so.
Jones, Edward R: that's basically what you have is your commands there are other commands this is easy to commands you can talk to the drone directly over that frequency over the connection so there's a command and it's called sin command and if you go up back a little bit here.
Jones, Edward R: let's see it said, this is available in 1.3 and also.
Jones, Edward R: In 2.0.
Jones, Edward R: we're isn't.
Jones, Edward R: A wonder if it's.
Jones, Edward R: documented.
Jones, Edward R: It may not be documented in here.
Jones, Edward R: yeah.
Jones, Edward R: There is a special command that's not document it's called sin command and, in that you send it a string and you can send the.
Jones, Edward R: command in the string and that gives you access to things that are not really in this and easy hello, there are a few commands that you can use, I will will see those being used from time to time.
Jones, Edward R: You can enable or disable to the video stream, which is, which should have should be interesting to do that as well.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, so that's that's about it for tonight, are there any questions before we leave.
Karis Jochen: I have a question, this is charisse.
Jones, Edward R: Oh carrie how are you.
Karis Jochen: i'm good, how are you.
Okay.
Karis Jochen: um my question is with with these in the drone Are we only is it limited to flying within wi fi connection or a house or could we What if we wanted.
Karis Jochen: To take it to a park or something to test it.
Okay.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, now, this is an interesting question.
Jones, Edward R: When I say they're connected by a drone there, they are they're connected on their private you and me kind of connection you're they're not the drone is not using your home wi fi.
Jones, Edward R: You do not need to be at home, you can be in the park because be what's happening here is the drone the drone is sending out a wi fi signal on a son frequency it's about 1010 hertz.
Jones, Edward R: And so it's submitted it sets up a wi fi connection the drone is programmed to do that and your computer is programmed to connect to other wi fi systems.
Jones, Edward R: So you know you go to your neighbor's house, you can connect to their wi fi system right.
Jones, Edward R: And he at home, you connect to your wi fi system different connections.
Jones, Edward R: Because your computer can can this is mobile it can go and connect here connect there and so what's happening is your computer is connecting directly to that drone and that drone is acting like a wi fi server.
Jones, Edward R: Okay.
Jones, Edward R: and accepting those connections.
Jones, Edward R: That also means, by the way, technically speaking, that somebody could steal your somebody could take over your drone you know Mister Mister hacker there.
Jones, Edward R: They could look at the signal and say Oh, I can do that, so there is a way to password protect that that connection, but we don't use it, because our connections are so short.
Jones, Edward R: The drones in the same room or whatever we don't worry about that, but if you're working with a real drone where you're the distance between you and the drone might be like five kilometers, then you might want to be more careful about making sure that the connection is protected.
Karis Jochen: right that makes sense, so So if you wanted to do the Python program to control your drone in the park, you would you would have to bring your computer right.
Karis Jochen: i'm thinking in a real world setting like how how How would you do it where someone someone else who doesn't have my Python program could could utilize it to fly their own john.
Jones, Edward R: yeah.
Jones, Edward R: Well, you see what there's a year there they did with the of the smartphone and with the iPad they basically wrote an APP to go in the iPad that is working like your computer.
Jones, Edward R: And so the the your iPad connects to the drone using it as this were a different wi fi system, and then the APP talks to the drone over wi fi connection sending it these kind of commands that you see here.
Jones, Edward R: So this basically what yeah if you're not going to use your computer you're going to use something like a computer smartphone or a iPad or something like that.
Jones, Edward R: However, nowadays, more and more drone flights are being computerized so.
Jones, Edward R: I should sometimes show you some pictures, but they are there, they are really developing drones for delivering packages that's probably going to happen.
Jones, Edward R: They already have drones that are used in agriculture, where the drone whereas flies out over the field and drops or sprays.
Jones, Edward R: pesticide and things like that, and then they have other drones that are used in constructions a survey, you know regular surveys of construction progress, and also the.
Jones, Edward R: Spending infrastructure, like electrical grids and things like that have a drone fly around, and these are all done by controlled by computers and it automatic.
Jones, Edward R: So you can buy now a little station it's like a little house and the drone lives in that house and automatically wakes up one in the clock goes off flies out.
Jones, Edward R: flies a definite route that's been programmed to fly takes pictures comes back and sends those pictures on the Internet to whoever their bosses right.
Jones, Edward R: The police people in the end the rescue people are using drones to fly out and find people that are lost in the forest, for example, or in the case of water, they may be, in the water, and then you drop the needle drop to them a life raft or a road a color.
Jones, Edward R: Like that you know.
Jones, Edward R: So there, there are a huge number of applications for drones other than taking pictures and just having fun.
Jones, Edward R: The fun market is huge, but.
Jones, Edward R: On the practical side tip out there, a lot of police departments that are getting some of these drones their larger ones.
Jones, Edward R: To take the place of running a helicopter right, so instead of launching a hugely expensive helicopter the watch a drone.
Jones, Edward R: or several drones and look out looking over different looking for people and things like that these are the systems that they buy.
Jones, Edward R: are typically somewhere around 100 to $200,000 for each drone because they not only have a large drone but then they have the infrastructure to support that which is a lot of compute some computers and people trying to you know operate that system so.
Jones, Edward R: So there's there's a lot going on, besides just what the sort of thing we're doing right here, but it all gets down to programming.
Jones, Edward R: You know all of those drones are basically going to be autonomous vehicles and somebody's going to have to program it to be hey well.
Jones, Edward R: To do whatever it is that they're looking for so there'll be programming them to recognize somebody in the water, for example, if you're looking at a rescue drone.
Jones, Edward R: Or if you're looking at a police drone they'll be programmed to go to a certain location look for certain people and apply them and follow them, you know they can you can do that, using the Ai software for image detection and that sort of thing.
Jones, Edward R: So I think I think it's pretty exciting but business wise, by the way, I think it's pretty exciting area.
Jones, Edward R: If you have the backing you know the resources to to do this sort of thing.
Jones, Edward R: Any other questions garish.
Fireman, Karen: Yes, Doctor to doctor.
Karis Jochen: No, that was great Thank you so much for the explanation.
sure.
Fireman, Karen: uh cajones it's Karen I was just wondering um I know you're always very cautious about when you give your credit card and things like that, when I have the.
Fireman, Karen: APP this afternoon, it was asking for access to all my photos I guess it obviously it takes photos but it didn't it wasn't very forthcoming about it, some privacy settings and how it was using data, how it was stealing data.
Fireman, Karen: So you have no problem, putting it on your phone and having giving you access to all your photos.
Of.
Jones, Edward R: The interesting conversation.
Jones, Edward R: Because it turns out, privacy, here is a real big issue because you're you know you're taking photographs and or potentially taking photographs and long train things.
Jones, Edward R: The United States army put out a letter about two years ago, prohibiting anybody in the butchery from buying a Chinese drone.
Fireman, Karen: right because it's probably listening it.
Jones, Edward R: Well, the thing is whether there is or there is a here's the deal.
Jones, Edward R: there's another APP called it's called kitty Hawk and there are a couple of Apps that you that if you're flying outside you use these Apps to make sure that your legal.
Jones, Edward R: Which means you're not in a no fly zone and they're all no fly zones are all over any places and airport there's a no fly zone right.
Jones, Edward R: So they have Apps that basically check your location and make sure you're not in one of those no.
Jones, Edward R: No, no area is right, and then the other thing that these Apps will do for you is that actually log your entire flight so every flight is can be automatically logged totally which means all the pictures all the video and exactly where you were at what time.
Jones, Edward R: Now, the reason they provide this, as this is a default scenario, by the way they by default the drones are set up to do this they're set up to when they're flying record everything.
Jones, Edward R: And that goes into a cloud that they basically a computer database online, and it also goes, you can go into your home into your computer your smartphone or your your pad over there, or what have you.
Jones, Edward R: So by default there's there's some settings that are automatically logging everything that's going on, and so the army didn't like that, then they found out that the.
Jones, Edward R: The cloud was in China right, so the logs go online and then the logs over the Internet over to someplace in China, and they have photographs of the inside of military installations and things like that.
Jones, Edward R: So, but the thing is, there is a very relatively simple thing to stop that from happening, the owner of the drone that's that's an optional sort of thing that, by default, will do that, but you can turn it off.
Jones, Edward R: And you can erase those logs and things like that, but you have the, but if you don't if you really want to be secure about that yeah turn it off now when you turn it off what happens if your drone flies away and gets lost.
Jones, Edward R: You can't find it so the reason, the reason is for the blogs, is that, if your drone should fly away and it happens when you lose the signal, it could happen, it could happen when you lose a signal can fly away well, you can let you if you've got the log you can find it may be most likely.
Jones, Edward R: But if you don't have a log you can't find it.
Jones, Edward R: So that's the there's.
Fireman, Karen: A try to get you right.
Jones, Edward R: that's yeah yeah, so I think if you're if you're just a recreational user.
Jones, Edward R: it's probably not a big deal, but if you're doing commercial or Mille our government work yeah it's a big deal so gotcha.
Fireman, Karen: Thanks, so you do it right.
Jones, Edward R: For myself, I don't really care, I want to find my drone.
Jones, Edward R: Right and the my purpose, is what I what i've taken a picture of the House.
Jones, Edward R: it's not a big deal.
Fireman, Karen: When i'm actually partly saying also is not only do they have access to the things in your flight.
Fireman, Karen: But by asking to have access to your photos if you can pictures of things that are your credit cards or your.
Fireman, Karen: Statements or your license or any other important thing that a lot of times people just send a quick picture and then you know they have it later, or they bought this or did that they have access to all that well.
Jordan Gross: Karen I would say that if you're using an iPhone, at least on the absolute latest operating system.
Jordan Gross: You can tell it that it is only allowed to access select photos not all photos have been your privacy settings so that it's not even able to see anything that you didn't explicitly tell it, it can get into.
Jordan Gross: And that's at the firmware level, so it would be blocking them out of the photos folder because you told them they can't go there now that's ios I can't speak to android.
Fireman, Karen: No i'm on my mom i'm your guy all the way that's great to know.
Jordan Gross: yeah absolutely.
Jones, Edward R: yeah I don't I don't think the.
Jones, Edward R: The.
Jones, Edward R: you're accessing your photos and credit card as usual that's usually a separate deal.
Jones, Edward R: it's just the the actual flight itself and the video that you're taking that so that's pretty accessible.
Jones, Edward R: And they actually the law enforcement kind of like that that they find somebody did something illegal like final word airport they may be a way that person was they would do find out who that was.
Fireman, Karen: Thank you for your out who store up the capital, I don't i'm not worried.
Jones, Edward R: yeah.
Jones, Edward R: and your credit card that's.
Jones, Edward R: We give up, I give up my my credit card goes out every day in some way.
Jones, Edward R: And so I just tell it on a protection there is to watch your bank account, make sure there's no was using the free legal purposes on offers.
Jones, Edward R: yeah.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, other questions i've been fun tonight oh OK so.
Jones, Edward R: I won't be talking with you, that is directly.
Jones, Edward R: We can we can have a Q amp a tomorrow night, if you want to have a q&a tomorrow night because then i'll be able to show you what this looks like.
Jones, Edward R: You know, once I get the the actual thing online to photograph.
Jones, Edward R: So.
Jones, Edward R: we'll plan on that tomorrow night and.
Jones, Edward R: and any other questions.
Swanson J, Charles Richard: yeah sure, thank you very much.
Jones, Edward R: Okay, well, thank you, thanks for your patience tonight that was a little awkward.
Jordan Gross: Thank you so much, Professor take care.
Fireman, Karen: Thank you, Professor I really appreciate.
Jim Clark: Not Dr Jones thanks well, by the way, your show recording.
Fireman, Karen: Thank you so much.